 ... I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Alrighty chat, my chat lords, chat ladies, chatars and everything in between, welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Dr. Olive Canoja. Just a reminder that everything we discuss today on stream is intended to be for educational and entertainment purposes only. Everything is intended to be taken as medical advice, so if you all have a medical concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. So we have a couple of announcements. The first is Dr. K wrote a book. And are there any Germans in chat? Because today our book is coming out in Germany. And I just wanted to show you all how awesome I think the German cover is. I have no idea what this says. I'm going to do my best to pronounce it. Socken, aber geschehen. Wie Eltern ihre Kinder beim Spielen an PC, Konsole und Handigut, Handiger und stressfrei begleiten Konen. Isn't that awesome? I don't know how I pronounced it. I don't speak German. And so I don't know what this means. What do you all think chat? Is this good? Is this a good cover? Do you all like it? Okay, I see someone pre-ordered the book. So first we put this into Google Translate. And this is what it said. Detected as German. Dr. Ola Konoje. Gambling, but healthy. How parents can accompany their children well and stress free when playing on PC, console, and mobile phone. Great. Healthy gambling. So I guess this is also going to be the start of our gambling sponsorship because healthy gambling, right? Let's go. All right. Dr. K gambling stream incoming. No, but seriously, I think this is super cool. I'm thrilled. I have, I think I was German in a past life because I love the German and or Austrian culture. Something about it feels very, very right to me. For those of you all that actually speak German, I have no idea if this is a good translation or not. Gambling is wrong. Thank God. Thank God that our German publisher knows because they publish books. They know the German language. And so a couple of things. I saw someone pre-ordered. So we actually have, if you all pre-order, we have a special Q&A thing happening for people who pre-order the book. I think it's happening. I don't know exactly when it's happening, but it's happening soon. And then the second thing is if you all have nieces, nephews, things like that, if you all have kids yourself, you can definitely get the book. But I think one of the key things to remember is that we've had a couple of streams where we talk about communication. And if you want to learn how to talk like Dr. K, check out the book. So the fundamentals of communication that we teach to parents to help them communicate with their kids is like basically what I do. So if you all want to learn how to be better communicators, I think the core of what we teach and if you all watch me do interviews and you all read the book, you will see that I'm using all of these techniques. So if you kind of want to look at the source code or the strategy behind how Dr. K does interviews, check out the book. Last thing is that if you all have parents who you have difficulty communicating with, you can use the book for yourself. The other thing that you can do is get the book for your parents and check it out first, and make sure you're okay with it. And then what you can tell them is like, hey, I would appreciate it if you could start talking to me like this. So you know how your parents buy you books and they're like, oh, here is a book about how to turn into something that I want you to be. Like how to discover God. 12 steps to embracing the God of your choice. And your parents are like, we want you to be more religious. And let's reverse uno them chat. We want you to learn how to communicate better and listen to what we are saying. We want you to try to understand our perspective. So our goal in the book is basically to, and this is what we do with y'all's parents, right? So y'all's parents call us and they're like, my kid is all messed up. And we're like, we beg to differ. We think that you could be doing different things, things differently. And then what we really try to help them do is to get on your team, right? So we think that when parents and children or when spouses or boyfriend, girlfriend, or when DM and player take your pick, the whole point is that all of the relationships that we have in life, we want to be on the same team. And there are certain things that make it difficult for us to do that, whether we're siblings, whether we're spouses, whether we're parent and child. And so how can you understand someone else's way of thinking? And also how can you model behavior in such a way where they are interested in understanding yours? That's what we really go through in the book. So part of the reason I wrote this book first is because a lot of people will ask us, hey, how do I learn how to be a better communicator? Like, for example, we'll have shorts and stuff about, you know, like we had a really successful short where I was like, here is how you make friends. So if people are talking about plans and you can just say, hey, is this an open invitation? You can just explicitly ask, is this something that only y'all are doing or is it an open invitation? Because I'm here and I'm like listening to the conversation, but y'all haven't explicitly invited me, so I don't know what the fuck am I invited or not invited. And so there are certain techniques we can use, but the key thing is that there are some fundamentals, right? So those are specific pieces of content that I think people have really appreciated. But if y'all really want to understand the fundamentals, there's a lot of sample dialogue in there. Definitely check out the book. The other cool thing is that just in full transparency, I am trying to figure out how to spend my time. So right now I'm working on two additional books. And then the main thing is that I need to know, we need to know from like almost like a business perspective or impact perspective, the two are somewhat similar, whether I should spend more time writing books. And so should I be streaming more? Should I be writing books more? I can't really stream a whole lot more because there's a cap on my voice bluntly. But we're trying to figure out, like I'm trying to figure out over the next one or two years, like what do y'all want from me? So I'm writing one book on mental health and one book on meditation and spirituality. That's what I'm like kind of working on right now. And these are going to be books for y'all. But like we need to know, like, do you guys want us to make more guides? Like we have a trauma guide that's coming out in a couple months. Do y'all just want us to make more YouTube videos? Do y'all want to do in-person events? And I know everyone's going to say like, yeah, we want everything. But basically, we look at the impact, right? How many people are going to read this book? How many people are going to buy this book? And that tells us what is the best methodology for AOE healing. So if y'all are interested in me writing more books, then buy books. If y'all are not interested in that, then show up here on stream, right? And we can do both. It's just we're trying to figure out, like, should I spend more time on research or books? This doesn't really cut into stream time because we're kind of committed to that. And I love that. And I'm not going to give it up because I miss y'all and I want to talk to y'all. OK. Yeah, so we'll continue to do a little bit of everything for sure, because I like that. And that's fun. But it really it really helps us understand, OK, so is my goal going to be write one book a year or is it going to be one book every other year? Like that's what we're talking about, right? So by 2026, do y'all want two more books or do you want one more book? I'm going to write it whether y'all want me to or not. And then I will do my German only fans fiction. OK. End stream, please. I'm not in the mood. OK, done. So that's useful to notice, right? So Bagel is saying literally literally no one I know reads books, but everybody watches YouTube vids. This is another thing that we're seeing is like a ton of the books are audio sales, audiobook sales. So I kind of I think we see that. But it seems like a lot of people listen to books, too. And by the way, I narrated the audiobook. So it is it is me. That took me a couple of days, but it was lots of fun. Yeah. So if you guys are tired of hearing my voice, get wrecked, shitties. If you want to hear more of my soothing voice as you listen to an audiobook as you go to sleep, then check it out. All right. Guides with workbooks. Yeah, we're working on it. Right. So the guides have exercises and stuff. We started developing that because you all wanted it. We have like we have a lot of exercises and stuff. We're slowly assembling these things. OK. But well noted that you all want workbooks. We will work on it. Yeah. Voices on cooldown. That's a great oh my God. I love this community. That's so brilliant. Yeah. Voice is on cooldown. That's a problem. OK. So let's do a couple of other things. So today what we're going to be doing is something pretty cool. So I don't know if we've done this before. So what we've done is taken a few of our most successful YouTube videos. And for those of you all are not YouTube videos. I mean, at some point, there were also Twitch streams. Right. But they can't live on Twitch forever. So we've taken a couple of our most successful pieces of online content. And the cool thing about this community is that you all watch content and then you respond in some way. And so the cool thing is that we're going to take some comments from some of our most successful lectures and we are going to address those comments by teaching you all more stuff. OK. So the first thing is if you all haven't seen these videos, highly recommend them. Also the YouTube algorithm and everyone in the community also highly recommends them. And we're going to take some of the most powerful and insightful comments or comments that are we just didn't take the most upvoted comments because some of them are like super, you know, have thousands of upvotes or likes or whatever. We didn't just take those, but we took the things that we felt like there was more to teach on or what is the next step. So the challenge with some of our lectures is that we'll get you, let's say, from step one to step five. And then someone in the comments is like, what happens next? Right. So I still have this problem. So that's what we're actually going to address today. OK. All right. So let's take a look. OK. OK. All right. So YouTube, this picture is crazy, but it is what it is. Let's just move on. I don't know why that's there. OK. Why gifted kids are actually special needs. So this is one of our top performing lectures, right? So it was a lot of fun to do. Just to give you all a quick background, I had a couple of really brilliant supervisors when I was training to be a psychiatrist. They prefer to remain anonymous, so I can't call them out by name. But one of them, one day in psychotherapy supervision, was teaching me about how gifted kids are special needs kids. So this is not my idea, but said person does not want to be internet famous. So she prefers to, she's like, that's cool that you made a YouTube video about it. And I was like, this is you. You taught me this. And she was like, that makes me feel good inside. I'm so proud of you. She's just an amazing psychotherapy supervisor, right? So she takes like, she's like, oh my god, she's so supportive and so amazing. OK. But so what we're going to do is kind of take a look at some of this. I will never forget how many times I felt humiliated by that old I expected higher grades from you speech. I didn't sign a contract with anyone who told them to expect me to be something. Throughout my childhood, any sign of failure was synonymous with a giant drop in my self-esteem. Gifted kid here, the biggest negative thing about being treated like I was better than everyone else was that I still find it really, really hard to ask people for help. It kind of feels like I've let someone down by not being self-sufficient. So this is terrifying. Because the challenge of being a gifted kid is that we are given an identity to live up to. We are given this idea of potential. And now we are kind of in a really tricky scenario because we don't get to live a normal life. Right? See, if you expect nothing from someone and they don't perform, that's just a regular failure. But if you were a gifted kid and someone expects a lot from you and you underperform, even if you perform average, right? See, this is the challenge is that performing average or being normal or even being above average is viewed as a failure. Now you live in a world where if you were a gifted kid and you succeed and you're at the top of your class, this is not a success. This becomes average. This is a very devastating psychological position to put someone in where the best that you can do is meet expectations. You can never exceed expectations. And even if you do normal, you are letting people down. This is incredibly damaging. And we're going to talk a little bit today about how to deal with this. Now this is also going to be a little bit different because what I really want you all to do today, I'm going to say a lot of things that don't logically make sense but are true. And what I'd love for you all to do today is try to listen to the poetry of what I'm saying instead of the prose. And even if that question, that statement is confusing, that's exactly what I'm talking about. OK? So the first thing that we're going to do is understand potential. There's something very weird about potential, which is that potential is by definition false. This sounds very confusing. See, here we are trying to live up to our potential. But by definition, if I am potentially capable of something, that means I have not accomplished it, right? Because then it isn't a potential anymore, it is a reality. So potential and reality are on opposite ends of the spectrum. So by definition, potential is false. So the first problem that gifted kids run into is that they are living in an artificially constructed world. So you're not living in the real world anymore. And as someone who's worked with people who are psychotic and delusional, if you're not living in the real world, that will be difficult. We see this also not just with people who have mental illnesses, but a lot of people will live in a delusional state, not like clinically delusional. So let's just take the simple defense mechanism of denial. So if I'm working with a patient who is an alcoholic, who denies that they have an alcohol problem, when you kind of point out to them that, hey, you have acute pancreatitis and your pancreas is eating itself, tearing these digestive enzymes instead of digesting food or digesting your own pancreatic cells. And when you digest the wall of a pancreatic cell, so a pancreatic cell has a bunch of digestive enzymes inside that it secretes into your stomach and your intestinal system. Then it breaks down this living tissue like meat. The moment that you pop the surface or the organelle of a pancreatic cell, all of those digestive enzymes leak out and then they start eating the other pancreatic cells, which in turn leads to a cascade of your pancreas digesting itself, popping organelles more. It's kind of like if I have a container that has acid, if I have a bunch of jars of acid sitting in my pantry and I eat through the wall of one container and then that acid leaks everywhere and then leaks into the walls of the next acid container and then I've got a spill of acid everywhere, that's literally what pancreatitis is. You are digesting yourself. And then the alcoholic says, I don't have a problem. If you are divorced from reality, you're going to have problems. Whether you're psychotic, whether you have a diagnosis of schizophrenia, whether you're high on methamphetamine, whether you're smoking K2, whether you're manic in the cases of mental illness or simple psychological defense mechanism, or in the most catastrophic case, being given potential. And I've worked with, for example, legacy kids. So very wealthy families in India will send their children to Boston for proper education. And these poor kids, man, they are so privileged, which is great in a lot of ways, but boy are there so many expectations. They have to go to Harvard, they have to go to MIT, some of them end up at Boston University, they're not living up to their potential. Oh my God. Northeastern. And their life is determined for them. They're expected to marry in a particular way, they're expected to take this multi-billion dollar family business over, right? So this is like everything is set out. I have determined who you are before you even exist and before you have any right of self-determination. This is what we do to gifted kids. We say you have this potential. But by definition, potential is not reality, then it wouldn't be called potential, right? Once it is realized, then it is reality. There's a second problem with gifted kids, is that any time we give someone a sense of identity, if the identity is positive, it can be more damaging than if the identity is negative. So we give you an identity that is a potential, but that is positive. And that can be more damaging than a negative identity. Now this sounds really weird. I'll give you all a simple example. So if you grow up and you're bullied, everyone calls you a loser, right? So I was both, I was both a gifted kid and I was bullied. And I've worked with people who have suffered from trauma, self-esteem problems, low self-worth, things like that. There's one really positive thing about that. I'm not saying it's positive on the whole. I'm saying there's one advantage that these people have, which is that this sense of identity is something that people want to get rid of. See when you get bullied, you're like, I don't want to be a loser anymore. And when you're, you know, if you're someone who's been traumatized and you have low self-worth, you say, I want to believe in myself. I want to love myself. I want to feel proud of who I am. So the one thing is a clinician. The one thing that I have going for me when I work with these people is that they want to change this identity, which is false, by the way, right? In both cases, they're false because these are potentials. And so now we've got at least one advantage, which is that we all agree that we want to change. So even if you look at things like motivational interviewing and dealing with denial and addictions, the goal is to help this person understand that they have a problem so that we want to change. The problem with gifted kids is that they don't want to change. They want to live up to a falsity. They don't want to abandon the idea of being a gifted kid. In fact, they try really, really hard to preserve this idea of being a gifted kid. They want to live up to their potential. They want to become something they are not. But this is very, very difficult because once again, you're entering this realm where the most that you can do is live up to expectations and even a partial success becomes a failure. It is a game that you cannot win. And so the whole point is that even if you're treated like a loser, if you're bullied, if you have low self-esteem, you want to strive to change. But the problem with the gifted kid is that they strive to become what other people want them to be. And this is really problematic because the strength in life comes from who you are, not a false idea of who you want to be. You have to start with where you are. The way to get sober is not by denying that you have an alcohol problem. The way to get sober is to admit that you have an alcohol problem, admit that you're in a bad place, and then move forward from there. Move forward from where you are instead of chasing somewhere where you want to go. And this, we have tons of research about this, is my clinical experience, that the alcoholic who wants to be sober for a decade fails. The alcoholic who is struggling not to drink today succeeds. But this is the problem with potential is how much success gets you to your potential. It doesn't work. Because even if you get a B, that's not good enough. If you start at a C, making a B is progress. And when progress becomes a failure in your mind, this is a curse. You're fucked. Make sense? So the other thing that happens is that when we have this identity of being a gifted kid, we don't want to shed it because then we have nothing left. So there's another video that we have about how intelligence leads to avoidance. And so this is what generally happens. When I'm gifted, when I have this idea of gifted, what does it mean to be gifted? Let's understand this. To be gifted, this person is gifted. What does that mean? That means that they don't have to put forth effort. How do you know the difference between a gifted person and a ungifted person? Oh my God, do you see how hard that sweaty nerd is working? The harder that the sweaty nerd works, the more sweaty that they get, the more pathetic they are. And the easier it is to slide through life without difficulty, this is the sign of gifted. So now you have another problem, which is that any time you put forth effort, it comes at the cost of your gifted kid identity. So you're left only doing the things that are easy in life. This becomes a huge problem. This is why we see this pattern in gifted kids of high acceleration followed by hitting a brick wall. I don't study in second grade, I don't study in third grade, I don't study in seventh grade, I don't study in tenth grade. Eleventh grade hits, now I'm in calculus, right? Because I'm in all these advanced classes. And then suddenly, I don't know how to study. And I can't afford to study, because if I study, who studies really hard? Gifted kids study really hard. So not only do you have not living up to your potential as a failure, or at best you meet expectations, which means you never really get any positive reinforcement, right? You don't get any positive momentum, you're deprived of that. Second thing that you're deprived of is the ability to work hard. Because any time you work hard, you're not gifted anymore. So you run away from working hard. Because in order to be successful, you no longer have to be gifted. And then what happens is your life becomes narrow. Because you don't do this thing that requires effort, you don't do this thing that requires effort. So the options available to you in life start to shrink. Because you can only do what is easy. And as time goes on, as you climb the ranks of life, and as life becomes harder and harder and harder, the number of things that are naturally and effortlessly easy becomes smaller and smaller and smaller. So your life is left with nothing but this idea of being a gifted kid. And then we come to the third curse of being a gifted kid, which is what is the other thing that gifted people do, or don't do? Ask for help. Because who needs extra tutoring? Not the smart kid in the class, the stupid kid in the class. And this is probably the most damaging thing, is that we teach these children that asking for help is something that is shameful. And now we are in a real problem. And this is what we see with gifted kids. Is that life is a multiplayer game. It's an MMORPG where you need a guild and you need a party. And now you're doing a lone wolf run, a solo run. But unlike all of these beautiful games like Baldur's Gate 3 that give you these lone wolf advantages, that's not how real life works. Hugging yourself does not give you oxytocin. Right? Jerking off is not a healthy relationship. Like you can't do it on your own. Like physiologically, neuroscientifically. I'm just using these two examples. It's really hard to take care of yourself when you've got the flu. Really easy to take care of someone else who's sick, and for that person to take care of you, life is a multiplayer game. It's the way that we've evolved. And we deny gifted kids the chance for help. We tell them, if you need help, you're a loser. Right? And if you're a gifted kid and you're listening, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Other people, it's okay for other people to get help, but I can't. Why not? Because they're average. They're normies. And I wear the mantle of exceptionalism. So I don't get to get help. And so how do we fix this? So I'm a recovered, gifted kid. And the big irony here is that when you shed the mantle of being a gifted kid, you will become so successful. And then y'all are, I just fucked y'all again. Because now you're like, okay, now I have to get rid of this and then I can live up to my potential. It doesn't work like that. You really have to get rid of it. And so this is the problem. So let's understand how to fix this. So in order to tackle being a gifted kid, what we have to understand is what does it literally mean? What is the mechanistic, scientific manifestation, the physics, the biology of being a gifted kid? Where does being a gifted kid actually exist? Now the first answer that people will say is that being a gifted kid exists in the minds of others. That is an expectation that other people put on me. That is both true and untrue. And what a lot of people wish is that I wish different people would no longer expect this of me. I wish other people would say, hey, it's okay for you to get help. I wish other people would acknowledge that I have worth even if I don't accomplish. But that's not what y'all say as gifted kids, right? Let's understand. Like you probably rejected that. What you actually say is I wish I could live up to their expectations. I want to defy their expectations. They thought that I had a 140 IQ. I want to have a 160 IQ. My siblings all became millionaires at the age of 30. I want to become a millionaire at the age of 25. You don't actually want to defy their expectations. You want to live up to them. You want to exceed them, right? Why? It's because you've never been able to, right? You don't actually want to change their minds. You want to show them that they underestimated you, not overestimated you. This is how the mind works. Because when I get an F on a test, I don't want a C. I want an A+. If I get dumped by my boyfriend or girlfriend, I don't just want to date someone else. I want to date someone who is going to make them feel ashamed, is going to regret it. They're going to regret ever dumping me. I'm going to show them. So what does it mean to be a gifted kid? So this is the one thing to understand. Being a gifted kid is an internal reaction in your mind. Literally, what it means to be a gifted kid is that your mind will generate thoughts and responses. That is entirely what it means. That's it. And I'll give you all a simple example. Let's say you want to ask for help. Why don't you? Because of what your mind says. Don't ask for help. You will feel ashamed of yourself. Other people will realize that you're not as special as you think you are. So in the case of being a gifted kid, what does it literally mean? It means that when you try to move forward in some way, that your mind generates some kind of thought that keeps you where you are. That's literally what it means to be a gifted kid. If you look at the most minute manifestation of being a gifted kid, it is an internal reaction to progress. No wonder we're fucked. An internal reaction to progress. So being a gifted kid is kind of like having a ball and chain in your mind that is shackled to you. So it's sitting there with this 50 pound or 50 kg ball that is tied to your ankle. And any time you try to move, if you try to ask for help, if you try to change people's expectations, if you try to admit to people that you're struggling, if you even put forth effort, it's not allowed. The only time you can put forth effort is when you know that putting forth effort will exceed expectations. If you can get an 8.0 instead of a 4.0, then you'll put forth effort. You have to be able to dazzle everyone in order to be able to do anything. So to understand if you really want to conquer being a gifted kid, there's really one starting step, which is to recognize your mind's internal reactions to things that are good for you in progress. And what you will find is that there's a lot of self-sabotage there. There's a lot of emotions like shame that keep you stuck. Recognize that it is all reactions. The second step is any time you see this internal reaction, there are going to be a couple of other features of it. If your mind tells you that something won't work for you but it'll work for someone else, then you should move towards it. So this is how you know which thoughts are good and which thoughts are bad. If everyone else is allowed to do it, then you should be doing it too, generally speaking. We don't want to apply that to jumping off of a cliff or whatever. But when it comes to things like sharing your feelings, getting help, even the idea of self-determination, you ask a gifted kid, what do other people get to be in life? They get to be whatever they want, but I do not. So notice that it is literally a reaction. Secondly, try to resist the reaction. And one of the things that you can do here is just sit with it. You don't have to force yourself to do it right away. Notice the reaction. This is what's really cool, is any time we notice something in the mind, it gets weaker, literally. That's just how it happens. If you want to decrease the weight of the shackle around your ankles and the ball that it's tied to, all you need to do is just notice that the shackle is there. Noticing leads to dissolution. There's lots of neuroscience behind that. We've covered that in other lectures and stuff. We won't go into that today, but that's just how it works. Also a yogic observation. And then the third thing to understand is once you start dissolving the thought patterns of being a gifted kid. And this is where we go to the science of cognitive behavioral therapy, where we have core beliefs and automatic thoughts. So we have certain beliefs about ourselves, and these beliefs generate automatic responses. And even in CBT, what we do clinically is we try to observe these automatic thoughts, and as we observe them, they become less automatic. Then we can start altering the course. And then eventually we will dissolve our core beliefs. Then you get to self-determination. Because the actual goal of being a gifted kid is to be nothing. This is what I strive for when I work with people who have this problem. Shed all of the expectations of other people, and that will hurt. Because if you could live up to them, that would feel so good. You'll make everyone around you happy. You're disappointing them anyway. Just disappoint them fully. The only problem is that you're half-assing it. Right? Like any gifted kid. Because as long as you half-ass it, you have an excuse for why you didn't succeed. It's the moment that you put forth full effort, and don't get at the top of your class that you realize you're not the smartest person in the class. There are other mechanisms at play where your gifted kid-ite mind will keep you stuck, sabotages you, literally tells you, don't put forth 100% effort, because if you put forth 100% effort and fail, then you are really a failure. But as long as you half-ass it, you can chase the dream that if you had worked hard, see, the potential is still there if you half-ass it. You are preserving the potential, which is a falsity. So all of your mental energy is going to preserve something that is not even real. And no wonder you're stuck in life, because you're not actually living your life. You're trying to preserve a false life. So how do we get rid of it? And let the shame come. Have people be there as best as you can, so our community is pretty good for this, right? It's okay. You'll survive. Trust me. And if you're concerned about not surviving, seek medical attention. But the beautiful thing happens, which is that we don't realize this as gifted kids. We think that living up to our potential is the goal, but what we actually want to do is get rid of our potential. We want to start living in reality. What does this practically mean? That means make your life a blank slate. Because right now, you're trying to color in what other people have imposed upon you. And that's not going to work. Maybe it works for other people, but it doesn't work for you. Because there are people I've worked with, they seem to be doing okay, but they're not. Make your life a blank slate. It'll be liberating. What would it feel like to have no expectations? Awesome. Why don't you do it? Because the process of doing it sucks. See, to get to the top of a mountain is very nice. To climb from the bottom is not so nice. This is what it is to be a gifted kid. So you want to make your life a blank slate. Get rid of all of that potential, and then you can engage in self-determination. You can't engage in self-determination when you're trying to live up to someone else's expectations. And then something beautiful will happen. Gifted kids have no idea that this is even possible. Then you will start to change the expectations of others. Because a lot of them wish that, oh, I wish I could change someone else's expectations. So let's understand this. How do you change someone else's expectations? By being something else. As long as my kid is striving to be a doctor, even if they don't want to be a doctor and they want to be an artist, I will maintain my expectation. And so a lot of people are cursed in life because you're trying to live up to other people's expectations, but you feel burdened by them. You can never live up to them. They always expect so much of you. Why do they expect so much of you? Because they're not going to be able to live up to your expectations. They're going to be able to live up to your expectations. You can never live up to them. They always expect so much of you. Why do they expect so much of you? Because you keep on trying to tell them that, yeah, you're going to get there one day. You are playing their game. How do you get your parents to accept you not being a doctor? By stopping trying, building your own life. One day they will accept because they have no choice, because their expectations are gone because you're not playing the game with them anymore. This is how you liberate yourself from the expectations of others. By becoming something else. This happened with me when I became a psychiatrist. I was finishing medical school and I had done well in medical school and my family was very happy. They're like, oh my God, you're going to be a great doctor one day and you're going to save lives. And I told them, hey, I'm interested in becoming a psychiatrist, like I'm thinking about it. This is what I told them because I hadn't made a decision. And then I got a lot of negative feedback. You're going to go crazy. You're too smart for this. You should be something else. So do something that's actually meaningful. How much impact can you really make? And that's just their conditioning. But in order to defy the expectations of others, you need to be secure. You have to be self-determined. Because as long as you're nothing on the inside, you will be shaped by everything on the outside. Because there's nothing in here. We see that in cases of borderline personality disorder. Where when this person has no stable sense of self, what other people expect of them is what they become. These people become chameleons. So how do you start to express your own color? You have to know what it is on the inside. And then you'll have the strength to defy expectations because you know what you are. And then you'll truly be free. And then something really cool will happen. People will either accept or reject you. But that's their choice. The majority of them will actually accept you, in my experience. And by my experience, I mean clinical experience. And some of them won't, which is OK. All right, so I've worked with patients, for example, who will come out as gay. And their parents don't accept them. And that hurts. But that is something that you can deal with. Pretending to not be gay and having your parents accept you is probably going to cause way more suffering over the course of your life. I've seen so many people ruin so many lives by pretending to be what they're not. And when you start to be what you are, you may disappoint a handful of people. But there's way more people that you're going to make happy. So it's very challenging to be a gifted kid. Because we get all of this expectation. And then our mind gets conditioned to it. We internalize it. And then it's not even the expectations of others. It's the expectations of ourselves. And this is why we carry it with us wherever we go. There's no escaping it. We try. And this manifests as a couple of things. The first is that you can never exceed expectations. It's either meet them or underperform. Those are your only two options. The second is that you can't put forth any effort or ask for help. Because this means you're not gifted. And the salvation comes in recognizing what is the literal manifestation of being a gifted kid. It's all in here. And this mind has an idea of a potential. But a potential is by definition not reality. And so you're trying to live in a false world instead of living in the world that actually exists and that doesn't work. So good luck. And if this gets uploaded somewhere, if you have further questions, ask them. Every mental health professional I've ever talked to has been like, you have a lot of self-awareness. And I'm like, yes, I actually think that is part of the problem. I've come to the point where I listened to this and was able to relate to it. But my brain says, you just think that to feel special, you just think that to feel special. You don't have depression. You just want an excuse for your incompetence. OK. So we make it sound like self-awareness is a good thing. Right? Oh, like this person is so unself-aware, whereas this person, oh my goodness, look how self-aware. This child is so self-aware. Look at how amazing they are. Oh my God. So here's something to understand about self-awareness. Self-awareness is like fire. And just like anything else in the mind, if we are in control of it, it is good. And if it is in control of us, it is bad. When fire is out of control, it is devastating. When fire is in control, it is wonderful. We can destroy bacteria. We can survive cold climates. We can do all kinds of things if we harness fire. The problem in our society today is that we think of some mental faculties as good and some mental faculties as bad. There's no such thing as a good mental faculty or a bad mental faculty. There are just mental faculties, and whether you are in control of them or not is the important thing. Right? Excitement is so good. I'm tired of being depressed, and I want to be excited. Makes a lot of sense. But excitement, oh my God, I'm so excited about this business idea. I'm going to be an entrepreneur. And then tomorrow, I'm so excited about opening a swimming pool where I charge people, whatever. So I'm going to abandon my previous idea, and I'm going to get to this exciting thing. I'm so excited to learn guitar, and tomorrow I'm so excited to learn piano. Excitement out of control becomes damaging to your life. But what about things like shame? Isn't shame bad? No. There's a reason why we evolved shame. Right? I mean, it's conserved throughout the human species. Must have some function. So the reason that negative emotions hurt so much is because they prompt us to action. The reason we have anxiety is like if I feel fear and anxiety when I encounter a mama bear that has just come out of hibernation with her two cubs, that fear literally keeps me alive. If I was like, oh my God, what a cute bear. Look at how cuddly that bear is. And I run up to the bear, and I start cuddling it, the mama bear will kill me. Literally. What about shame? Because shame helps us feel, makes us feel so bad. So what does shame do? Shame induces behavior. This is important to understand. See, when I feel ashamed of getting a B on a test, what is that shame supposed to do? If I no longer want to be ashamed, what do I need to do? I need to get an A. So shame actually is the motivation for corrective behavior and improvement in the real world. The problem right now is that we have all kinds of artificial things that will trick us into feeling shame, like social media, which shows us literally filtered versions of people. So they are showing us false versions of reality. This is not a real person. This is a pixelated, altered human being. And then this induces shame. But there is no corrective action I can take to actually fix that problem. So now what's started to happen is people have realized, OK, I can trigger shame in these other people. If I make them feel ashamed, then I will sell them a cosmetic. Oh, you want to look like this, right? So you'll have people who sell cosmetics, and then they Photoshop their pictures. And literally, what are they trying to do there? They're trying to create shame, and they say, if you do this thing, you will look like this. But the picture is Photoshopped. That person doesn't even look like that. And they're not maybe even they're using the cosmetic or they're not using the cosmetic. Right? You literally have people who will be doing things like selling supplements. And they'll be injecting steroids. And they'll say, if you want to look like me, buy this supplement. You look at that, you feel ashamed, you say, oh, my God, I want to look like that. And then you buy their supplement, rot, row, surprise, Pikachu face, you don't look like that. Sometimes they conveniently leave out that they're injecting steroids. So what's happened is that shame has always been good, but now things are getting out of whack. And self-awareness is no different. So this is interesting stuff, OK? So people who have more self-awareness can sometimes there are some studies that show that people have high amounts of self-awareness are prone to depression and prone to suicidality. There's a really interesting study called the INSIGHT trial that was looking at people who were diagnosed with degenerative neurologic diseases. These are things like Lou Gehrig's disease, ALS. OK? So these are like degenerative neurologic diseases, sometimes things like Huntington's and stuff like that. So these are things where like you're basically you're some part of your brain is going to decay during your lifetime and you won't be functional. And the more aware they were of the problem, the more suicidal they were likely to be. And on the flip side, we also know that, for example, the most rapidly acting treatment for depression that we have in our arsenal is ketamine. What is ketamine? It is literally a dissociative agent. So ketamine was originally developed in anesthesia so you can cause this person to dissociate while you literally cut into their body. This is why we developed ketamine, to unplug your awareness from your body. Literally it's a chemical way to unplug your awareness from your body. And this is the most rapidly acting treatment for depression. You can give someone an IV infusion of ketamine, their depression will disappear in some cases. So self-awareness is not a good thing. It is like fire. It will burn you up. Literally induce things like suicidality and depression if it is out of your control. And the problem is that some people have too much. Just like fire, the question is whether you can harness it or not. So some people will sort of say, okay, so what we need to do is literally reduce the self-awareness. And there are clinical reasons for that. Like literally we'll infuse people with ketamine. Because we're like, you're way too self-aware, bro. Or girl. Let's shut off that self-awareness. We also see that in trauma with dissociation. You're way too aware of what's going on right now. You need to unplug. We also see this in the majority of human beings on the planet in smaller forms. Numbness. You're feeling bad? Play a video game. Doomscroll for a little while. Forget your life. Because when you think about your life, it's so depressing. So this is what we tend to do in Western science. Is that we tend to look at the manifestation of the problem and we artificially try to correct that. And that can be good, by the way. It's not bad necessarily. It's just incomplete. So if we look at things like antidepressant medication, one of the functions of antidepressant medication, which is also anti-anxiety medication, if we look at things like SSRIs, it creates some degree of emotional numbness. One of the side effects is numbness. We literally reduce your awareness of what's going on inside you. And that has good clinical outcomes. Sometimes we want to induce numbness. We want to give people like, I don't know, pain medication when we cut into them. So there are good reasons to use it. But what we also know from studies on psychotherapy and psychiatry is that giving someone a numbing agent and combining it with actually fixing the problem or training skills has a strong synergistic effect with positive outcomes. Psychotherapy helps 50%. Medication helps 50%. And if you put them together, you get an 80% improvement. I'm just ballparking the numbers there. I think the actual effect size is somewhere in the 40 to 70 ballpark. They have a synergistic effect, but it's not additive. So now the question becomes, I have too much self-awareness. What do I do? numbing myself, to reduce my self-awareness. Whereas what I would say the real goal, long-term goal, and you can use medication to get there, so that's how I kind of think about using medication, is let's use medication so we can stabilize someone so that we can help them engage in the skills building that is necessary for real long-term healing. So for example, if I'm working with a trauma patient, we'll give them medication like Prozosan, which stops them from having nightmares, which means that they have a good night's sleep. And once their brain has a good night's sleep, wow, their ability to engage in psychotherapy and their emotional dysregulation actually objectively improves. So what we really need to do more than anything else is train our self-awareness. It's not too much or too little. It is in control or out of control. And so how do we train our self-awareness? The first thing is to be aware of our self-awareness. And what I want you all to really notice is that self-awareness usually has a direction. So if we look at this, it says, but my brain says, you just think that to feel special. You don't have depression. You just want an excuse for your incompetence. See, if you look at self-awareness out of control, what you will discover is that the self-awareness out of control always moves you in a particular direction. You are selectively self-aware. This is what makes it out of control. It chooses to burn some things and not burn other things. It's not cooking your food. It's burning down your house. And this is why there's even studies that show that the higher your IQ or the higher your analytical capability, the more likely you are to be depressed. So the problem with self-awareness is that it can be a tool that is turned against you. So the first thing to notice is that generally speaking, an awareness out of control points always in one direction, not just one, but maybe a couple. And just observe that. Be like, wow, that's interesting. Why is it that my self-awareness always counters something in this direction as opposed to something in the opposite direction? And literally what we do in psychotherapy is something called cognitively reframing, which is that what we do is our mind automatically moves in this direction and we train it to move in another direction. And if you are able to discover this, you can sort of check out, we have videos on things like some scars that's in Dr. K's Guide to Meditation, Dr. K's Guide to Depression. You all can check that out. If you want more details, but we'll explain it here. Because what you will find is that at some point in your life, you learned some kind of lesson. There's some kind of emotional energy that develops these kinds of thoughts. So if we look at something like this, like this comment, right? So what does this comment tell me? So you just think that you feel special, you don't have depression, you just want an excuse for your incompetence. So when I read something like this, my first thought is that this person was not allowed to fail. And this is very common with people who have too much self-awareness, people who are depressed. Is that other people in life were allowed to fail, but you were not. When you made a mistake, people blamed you really hard for it. When there were things that were literally out of your control, you were still blamed. I see this with unhealthy parenting, where parents will say things like, oh my god, like, you know, the parent is drunk and they get mad at you, but what were you doing? You were just playing with your toys. You're four and a half. You didn't know what else to do, because by the way, yesterday and the day before, you were playing with your toys and that was fine. So what we tend to see is that when people are not allowed to fail, they're told, hey, this is not acceptable. You were responsible for this. And when you become responsible for it, suddenly you're not allowed to have an excuse, because you view it as an excuse. It's not a reason, it's an excuse. See, if you view the things in your life as excuses instead of reasons, this is a problem. What's the difference? The difference is the coloring of your mind. If it's acceptable, it's a reason. If it's unacceptable, it's an excuse. But the thing is the same. The only difference between an excuse and a reason is whether someone is willing to accept it. So at work you say, hey, I'm sorry, I'm late today, this thing came up. If your boss accepts it, that's a good reason. If they don't accept it, that's an excuse. So it's about the acceptability or unacceptability. It's not a function of reality, it's a function of judgment. So if you have too much self-awareness, start by noticing how selective it is. Start by noticing where did your mind come up with these conclusions? Why did you get trained in this way, this way of thinking? Were you allowed to do something as simple as fail? And then what we have to do is the process of re-engineering our beliefs. I see some people are saying glishta, yeah. This is glishta, very good. Some people are paying attention in our membership lectures. Very good. See, this is the beautiful thing. So some of those lectures that we do, we're teaching you all the fundamentals, but learning the fundamentals is hard. We have to have several, several hours of stuff to build up to that. But if you all have been paying attention, you'll notice that all of the things that I talk about can be translated into these building blocks. Vasa and glishta, among other things. Karma, dharma. Okay? So if you have too much self-awareness, it's not that you have too much or too little, it's that it's out of control. And the last thing that you can do is literally train your awareness. And this is through the practice of meditation. But not just some mindfulness. Don't do that. I mean, you can. But this is where I strongly recommend you do something called a dharana. So a dharana is a focusing technique where you put your awareness on a particular object for as long as you can. And if it wanders away, you bring it back. It can be the breath, it can be looking at something, it can be listening to something, it doesn't really matter. So there's one really good dharana, I don't know if I have a singing bowl in here. But with a singing bowl, we used to do this exercise where you can grab a singing bowl and you ring it. And then you try to pay attention as long as you can and try to detect the sound of a singing bowl until it disappears. And so as it gets quieter and quieter and quieter, you need to harness your awareness more and more and more to be able to detect it. Technically, the sound never stops. It just decays. But the vibrations will continue to decay, to continue to decay, to continue to decay. Maybe they do stop at some point, I don't know. But my understanding is that they continue to bounce off. I don't know if it ever gets to zero, who knows? Maybe a physicist can answer that. But your ability to detect it depends on training your awareness. So do the dharana on a singing bowl. Ring the bowl and just listen for as long as you can. Try to detect it. And the good news is if I say instead of just listen, if your mind is anchored to a particular goal, it will be easier to focus your awareness. So if I tell you listen for the sound as long as you can, and you can even time it, you can say this time I was able to detect it for 32 seconds. Last time I was able to detect it for 28. Okay? So the problem isn't too much self-awareness. It's awareness out of control. Okay. Timely with the klishita comment. So just a quick heads up. So we started a memberships thing here at HEG. And basically part of the reason that we did that is because when we do stream content and stuff like that, that content is kind of like for everyone. And it's not restricted. But the audience that I'm thinking of is anyone coming in and going. So sometimes people join late. Sometimes people leave early. Sometimes this is the first time that people are here because we're growing. And that's not a bad thing. It just means though that all of the content must be accessible to basically everybody. The challenge though is that if we make things that are only accessible to everybody, we can never get to calculus. We can maybe do Newtonian physics, but we can't even get to relativity or quantum mechanics or anything like that. We have to stay at the basic level. And so we started memberships to be able to do advanced things. The other thing is that we have to respect the content restrictions of platforms. So we don't always prioritize that as number one. We'll frequently make lectures and things like that that are very specific to a group of people that won't be broadly accessible. And we're happy with that. We'll talk about particular mental health conditions, whatever. Like that's fine. At the same time, we still have to respect that there is an algorithm at play. We have to respect that, for example, if we make a video on suicide, it will get demonetized immediately. And it may impact our overall channel performance because, oh my God, this person is talking about suicide. So there are some realities of the platforms that we live in. And in order to break free of some of those realities, this is part of the reason that we want to do memberships, because on memberships we don't give a fuck. It's not about platform performance. It's not about getting banned. I mean, we're not going to do things that get us banned. And then the other really cool thing is that part of what I like about it is that, see, when we come up with stream topics and stuff, we'll have some degree of interaction. We'll do Q&A and things like that. And I love live interaction. It's really fantastic. But the cool thing is that on the membership side, basically every month people are voting for what topics I prepare. So I'm going to generate four lectures a week that are at least one hour, usually around 15 minutes of Q&A. And then there's usually one Q&A section for all the questions that we don't get to. So we'll do about four to eight hours of content per week that is determined by the community. So yesterday we did a lecture on tantra and meditation. And then we've got two tiers. We've got a $10 tier and a $15 tier. And this was really important to us that basically you get all the value at the base tier. And then if you want to give us extra money, you can pay more. I know a lot of people when they'll do like Patreons or whatever, right, like whatever thing they do, they're like, OK, you can support us for like a dollar a month or $5 a month or whatever. And you get some emote or some badge. And then if you get extra content, if you give us $10 a month, $15 a month, $20 a month, we feel like the opposite is the way that we want to do it. So we want to try to deliver the maximum value as accessible a price point as possible. And then if you want to give us extra money, you can give us extra money. So if you want to help us build additional content, and that's the other reason that we're doing this, as part of the reason that we ask for money for things is because I know it's crazy, but some things cost money. Even doing things like uploading videos and having like, you know, we've got a whole stream set up and someone helps me set up this overlay and all this kind of all this stuff costs money. And as you all know, we don't we're very careful about the sponsorships that we take and we tend to leave a lot of large sponsorship. We turn say no. But gambling, but healthy. Sometimes we'll get, you know, we probably turn down at least seven seven figures worth of sponsorships a year, which is just something that we're doing because it doesn't feel right in the moment. And I know that a lot of people are also in situations of financial difficulty. That's part of the reason that we try to do things as cost effectively as possible. So part of the reason that we continue to stream and stuff like that, we get some income from streaming. But I don't know if you'll notice, but we don't do things like subathons or donation drives or things like that. We'll do it occasionally if there's a really good reason for it. But there's no like sub goal at the top, right? That's not something that we do. Maybe we'll do it one day. Who knows? But we're really here to try to create AOE healing and we're going to do the best that we can with the resources that you'll give us. And there are certain things that if you'll give us resources for it, that sort of pays for the cost and pays for other things. And there's just no way we can make as much stuff unless we start charging for things, right? The other things are we haven't taken any capital investment or anything like that, which a lot of people will do. And that's just those are the choices that we've made so far. I'm not saying they're right. I'm just sharing with you all what we think is helpful. Or I'm sharing with you all what our thinking has been so far. And chances are we've made bad decisions, like just statistically, right? Because we're, I'm new at this. One of the simplest stupid things that I didn't realize is the more free stuff you build, free stuff is fine to build, but the more people that you build free stuff for, the more money it takes. Which means that free is fine if you've got like five people. But free for five million is more problematic. And the way that a lot of streamers and stuff will make that work is by doing things like taking big sponsorships. But so far we've realized that sometimes the reason people want to pay us a lot of money is we're very hesitant about taking a sponsorship that we really don't believe in. We may at some point, right? So we may decide at some point that like, okay, on balance, it's okay to make a deal with the devil. We're going to practice a little bit of blood sorcery here. And that the financial gain that we get will allow us to do more good. Okay. All right. Okay. So I guess here's what members are doing. All right. So I have a group of people who live near me and I spent a long weekend with them recently, but we only hang out at that once a year gathering despite living 10 minutes from each other. So I suggested a movie night and we're making it happen this Friday and oh, the Vasanas have been swarming. Stuff I thought I had worked through already. It's been hard not to just flip the table and tell everyone to forget it, but I'm figuring it out. It's interesting to see how when I'm stuck in a samskara's emotion, it feels like everything is going horribly, but once I can work through it, everything is actually going just fine. So I know that some of these terms may not make sense to y'all. So a vasana is a mental habit. Something is like a ball of undigested emotion. So part of what we're trying to do is teach y'all the skills so that you understand how your mind works. And once you understand how your mind works, I don't know if y'all have been in this problem where I invited a bunch of people and then my mind tells me to cancel, or I said yes to going to the social engagement, then my mind tells me to cancel. We say I have anxiety. Right? This is what we'll kind of say. Oh, it's anxiety. It's anxiety. So then people will say, how do I fix this anxiety? The cool thing is if we use some of these yogic techniques, it's not about solving a particular anxiety. It's understanding how the mind works. And then you'll start to make what we hope. We're really happy. We didn't know that this was going to happen. But the reason that we taught this stuff is to see things like this. Right now you're altering the trajectory of your life because you made these social plans. You were going to quit, and now you're not quitting, and now you realize it's fine. And then something really cool happens. Once you realize that it is fine when my mind is terrified, I do not need to listen to it, then your life will start to change. Because the reason you say stuck is because the moment that your mind gets terrified, you have to give into it. The moment that you no longer have to give into a terrified mind, then your life will be completely transformed. You will be able to determine your own destiny because you're not controlled by fear anymore. I think I'm going to join the one I've been hesitating on, Game Dev Group in my state. At first I figured I wouldn't like the people in it based off of the one virtual meeting I went to. But now I'm starting to realize that the hesitance to continue is just a vasana. It's just my mind saying, you aren't going to find people you resonate with because you never do. So this is exactly what we're trying to do. And then people are also supportive, so strong AF. So see, we don't realize that so much of our destiny is controlled by patterns in the mind. We don't realize this. We don't know how to study what our mind tells us. We just accept it as true. And then literally what happens is this holds us back in life. Because this person has now joined a Game Dev Group in their state, and without this thing, they may not have joined that Game Dev Group. And now think about the trajectory of this person's life. There are so many things in your life that you want to do, but then your mind tells you no. You listen to it, and then you stay stuck. Our goal is to help you here at Healthy Gamer build a life that is worth living. And what is it that gets in the way? This is a very common mistake. Everyone looks at the world and says, oh, the world is going to shit, which I don't disagree with. Therefore, I can do nothing. That I disagree with. If you look at traumatic and abusive relationships, the reason that someone is able to stay in an abusive relationship as the abuser, the abuser tries to do one thing, which is convince the victim of abuse that they have no power. The moment that someone convinces you that you have no power, that's when you truly lose the game. See, the game of life, the clock doesn't run out. I guess theoretically we all die, but not anytime soon. Why do we lose in life? Because we give up. And we don't see it as giving up. We see it as struggling with anxiety. But our mind controls so much of us, shapes our life. Because if the mind says it's good to do, it's safe to do, then we do it. And if you look at all these people who are disciplined, what do they do? They basically learn how to ignore their mind. Now that's one step of the way there. I don't think that ignoring your mind is a good idea. I advocate for harnessing your mind, which ignoring it at times is okay. So learn how it works. Understand its patterns. And if I could do one thing, like one thing that I would really like to do is develop a mental health curriculum for schools. So many of the problems that we have right now are because other people understand our minds and how they work better than we do. Advertisers, app developers. There are two... See most of the world has clients. Some people in the world have patients. There are two groups of people in the world who have users. App developers. Think about that. So the problem right now, the reason everyone's like, oh, so many advances in neuroscience, research on psychedelics, ketamine, so many advances in these new psychopharmacology, third generation antipsychotics, advances in mindfulness, all of these meditation apps everywhere. We're learning so much about GMO and gut microbiome. We're learning so much in science. Why isn't mental health getting better? Suicide rates are increasing. Rates of depression and anxiety are increasing. Rates of loneliness are at epidemic proportions. Thankfully, the Surgeon General is aware of that and doing something about it in the United States. Despite all of the technological advancement, why are we losing the war on mental health? We're winning the war on cardiology. We can do a heart transplant. We've got Ozempic. Woohoo. Right we're developing biologic agents. We can straight up cure certain kinds of cancer. CML used to be such a lethal disease. We have these things like rituximab and stuff like that, like these monoclonal antibodies, which are helping us conquer diseases. But we're losing the war on mental health. Why? Because other people understand our brains and our psychology better than we do, and they can take advantage. So you have a group of people who is running rampant, taking advantage of your mind, including platforms like this. I don't think they're nefarious. I think they just have a mandate, right? Increase users. That's their mandate. That's it. And how is that different from any other mandate? If I run a sandwich shop, I want to sell more sandwiches. I want to give more people sandwiches. And these platforms, I really don't think, maybe they could be, but I tend to give people the benefit of the doubt. They do what they think is right. They try to increase their user base, right? That's what happens in business. It's competition. But what we really need to counter that is to teach people about their own mind, because right now they understand everything about your mind. You don't understand shit about your mind. They know how to make you buy something. You don't know how to stop buying something. They know how to make you play a video game. They know how to increase engagement. You don't know how to stop playing a video game. They know how to make you watch pornography and donate or support or whatever, pay this amount for this kind of thing on OnlyFans. You don't know how to stop it. What's even more terrifying is sometimes the people in your life don't know how to stop it for you. I've seen marriages fall apart because of OnlyFans, because there's an emotional component. There's an interactive component. where my approach is not, okay, blame them. This is where everyone will say, oh my God, we need to tear it down. We need to stop them. And there's some value to regulation and putting limits and stuff like that. I'm not disputing that. But that's just not where I come from. I'm a clinician. I think it's way easier to just train the individual. Let's give you ammo to fight back. Let's teach you about your mind in a way that an app developer can never understand, because your mind is unique, which means that an app developer who's trying to understand your mind, they can't understand an individual. They're getting close. Targeted ads, cookies, oh my God. See they're getting so close. Targeted advertising, oh, brilliant. But you can understand your mind way better, and we need to develop a curriculum to do that. We're trying to do that one piece at a time here at HG. Okay. All right. Speaking of, how years of porn consumption affects the brain's ability to form relationships. Okay. I'm 31 and recently had a talk with a 20-year-old international student from the UK studying with a mutual friend at the party, and after a few drinks she mentioned how the men in her life would basically treat her like a man, but would, the way she would describe intimacy in relationships, would expect her to act like a porn star. She was talking about this as if it was a fair trade. She felt equal in her relationships, but only because her view of intimacy meant she had to do things porn stars would do in order to please her man, while the men didn't have to do anything in return. Similar to how Victoria's Secret models made women feel like they needed to look that to be sexy in the era of magazines. It was enough that people at the party of 30-year-olds all stopped talking amongst themselves and had to sit her down and tell her this wasn't normal. She still thought we were all joking and just being typical old people, but it was really heartbreaking. How do you convince someone who grew up with the internet that porn and OnlyFans is not and when it's the only thing their generation knows about sex? So this comment is brilliant because it speaks to a catastrophic problem in our society, which is that the human race is becoming divorced from reality. See this is important to understand. We're seeing a rise in political conflict. We're seeing a rise in geopolitical conflict. Nations are at war. Nations are competing against each other. Here in the United States, we have no semblance of any kind of cooperation like the way that we used to have 30 or 40 years between political parties. We're seeing more religious conflict. We're seeing gender conflict. So conflict in the world is rising. And why? What's happening in the world today where conflict is rising so much in every dimension that you look at? The reason that we used to be able to patch things up is because both of us were playing from the same reality. See if I'm playing a game of chess with you, but I have one board state, let's say I'm playing online chess and my game is lagging. And so my board state is different from your board state. What's going to happen? We're going to start fighting. Oh, I just took your queen. And you're like, no, you didn't. My queen isn't in that square. My queen is over here. What the fuck? You're cheating. That doesn't work. See in order for there to be any chance of conflict resolution, we must live in the same reality. You're having an affair. You're not. I took out the trash. No, you didn't. I told you about that last week. Don't you remember? No, you didn't say anything. See anytime human beings don't live in the same reality, there's going to be conflict. That's inescapable. It's not some great psychological. I mean, I don't have no studies to prove that, but I'm sure that that's true. I mean, I do have studies actually now that I think about it. So you can look at methods of marriage counseling. And what do we do in marriage counseling? So I'll give you all just a simple technique that we use in marriage counseling that's really, really hard to do. It feels very cognitively difficult, but works really well. So anytime I'm doing couples counseling, I'll teach both of the couples a technique, which is anytime your partner says something, before you respond to them, you need to repeat back what you heard. So you have to repeat your understanding of their words before you counter it. It's very difficult to do. And sometimes it takes weeks, because anytime you hear something from your partner, you automatically respond with why you think they're wrong and why you think you're right. You never even stop to make sure that you listen, that you heard what they're actually saying. And something beautiful happens. Once you stop to understand the reality that your partner is living in, and they stop to understand the life that you're living in, the reality that you're living in, now at least we're on the same field. We have the same board state. We can still disagree about whether this move is right or this move is wrong, but the whole problem is at least we have the same reality that we're living in. And what's going on right now? There's a really interesting set of research on something called online drift, which is that anytime you click on something on a platform, you get engaged with an algorithm. And what happens with these algorithms is that over time, the emotional engagement, the dopaminergic engagement, will build up a tolerance. So if I watch one video of a cat, that will be cute. But the second video of the cat that I watch that is exactly the same will not lead to the same enjoyment. So I'll give you all just a simple example. When you watch a video on the internet, how many times in a row do you watch it? If you want to spend an hour scrolling on the internet, do you watch the same video over and over and over again for an hour? Of course not. That is crazy, Dr. K. What the hell are you talking about? I never watch something more than once. Why? Because there is a tolerance to a signal that develops. So in order to avoid that tolerance, you need a stronger signal. And this is what the internet has discovered. They're not trying to be nefarious. What they realize is if you watch one piece of misogynistic content, we need to serve you more misogynistic content because that's what you'll engage in. If I serve you one piece of misandrist content, I need to serve you more and more pieces of misandrist content to get you engaged. And they also figured out something really cool. Is that if you're a misogynist, to really improve your engagement, we need to serve you misandrist content. And if you're a misandrist, what we really need to serve you is misogynistic content. Look at all those other people and how mean they are. Oh my God. If you're a liberal, you'll get some crazy conservative echo chamber content every now and then or even a lot. Because the platforms have learned if we can piss you off, you're not going to move to a different platform. This is online drift. And so as we watch this, human beings were sort of wired in a stupid way. This is the stupidest, most idiotic evolutionary wiring, which is that we're so dumb that what we see through our senses is what we think an approximation of reality is. I know it's dumb, but if I'm like walking down the street and I see a tiger, I think, oh my God, there's a tiger. If I'm walking down the street and I see a dog poo poo in the middle of the sidewalk, I'm going to step around that dog poo poo. I'm not going to step on top of it because, oh, fucking my dumb brain. When it perceives something, it thinks it's reality. Now the problem is that what we are perceiving is highly different. And as we perceive different things, we start to live in different realities. And this is why we have a problem with gender dynamics today. This is why we have a problem with pornography. This is why we end up with things like this. Someone's asking, how do I convince someone that this is wrong? The first thing is that you cannot convince them that this is wrong because how do you know you are right and they are wrong? Maybe you are just old. Maybe this is the way that their whole generation does it. I've been told this, that the truisms of dating for my generation are no longer true. This is not how girls are, Dr. K. You don't know what it's like now, bruh. You have no idea what guys are like. There are no good ones left. Everyone's into these misogynistic content creators and this and that and everyone watches too much porn and whatever. Where did you get that information? Because of the content that you watch. How many people's lives do you get an insight into because of the content that you watch? How many people's lives do you get an insight into because of your interactions with them? Chances are you encounter a hundred times more human beings on the internet and they give you an idea of their life than you encounter in real life. How many porn stars have you watched and how many people have you had sex with? And a stupid brain. Our brain sees a hundred men, women, whatever, enjoying this kind of sex and we've had sex twice in real life with two different people or we've had two romantic partners. Which one? We have a hundred data points over here and we have two data points over here. Stupid brain. It values the hundred data points over the two data points. Dumb brain. So we construct an idea of reality based on what we consume and the problem is that we're not consuming reality. We're consuming a version of it. We're consuming propaganda. We are consuming literally stuff that has been crafted. Literally crafted. Edited. A 25 minute pornography video can take six hours to shoot. You're not seeing the six hours. You're seeing 25 minutes. And so when someone says, how do I convince this person? I think that there are a couple of practical things we're going to say. So the first is to understand the person first. So this is actually literally the problem that we have with How to Raise a Healthy Gamer is we have a generation of parents who are like, how do I convince my kid that video games are ruining their life? And this is where we say, you can't. But here's how. All right. We say first you must understand. And Dale Carnegie said this really well. He said, if you want to understand, first seek to understand, then seek to be understood. So understand them first. And anytime I look at like conflict, right, so for example, there's stuff going on in Gaza right now and I'm not trying to take sides. But the one thing that I noticed is that very few people are trying to understand the other side. All the content is these people are wrong. No one is ever asking, why do these people believe this? What is the data set that they're using? It's not what is the data set. It's just they're wrong. Everybody else is wrong and I'm right. No wonder the world is going to shit. We've stopped trying to understand each other. So if you know someone in your life who you think that they're very warped and we see these posts all the time, people will reach out to us for help. My boyfriend, husband, whatever is going down this pipeline. My wife, girlfriend, whatever is like becoming a like really toxic, misandrist, feminist person who thinks it's okay to emotionally abuse me, physically abuse me, whatever. We get all these kinds of stories. And this is where if your reaction is, oh my God, like men are worse or women are worse, like that's what I mean. It's like based on what the reality that you're consuming, you're going to believe one or the other. And this is where we don't really care about. I mean, we do. But generally speaking, we're not so concerned that, oh, we're not going to help this person because this person has it worse. Like as a medical doctor, breast cancer is way more common than testicular cancer. But when someone shows up with testicular cancer, we don't say, hey, fuck you. Breast cancer is more common. Right? You help anyone who asks for help. It's not about who has it worse. And I've seen this as a psychiatrist where like whether you've had really bad trauma or just moderately bad trauma, everyone deserves help. So the first thing is to understand where is this person getting this idea? And the second thing is to offer your perspective. And oftentimes the one missing piece here is that when people construct a particular reality, they don't realize how much hand they have in constructing it. So this we see all the time as a clinician. Right? So this person has arguably an unhealthy relationship with the men in her life. But the question is, how does she select those men in the first place? Oh. Right? This is where a lot of times, I mean, even when I work with people like incels, it's like, oh, yeah, all women are mean or whatever. Women always take advantage of my feelings. But then the question is like, what happens when you like, how do you select the women who take advantage of your feelings? Right? The women who take advantage of your feelings are the ones that will when you tell them you love them, they won't have the respect for you to end the relationship. They will maintain the relationship and continue to take advantage of your emotional energy without reciprocating. The decent women will realize this is not what I want from this relationship, so I'm going to end it. So the only women that you end up with are the ones who are going to take advantage of you. I see this a lot with patients who have abusive relationships where we know that plenty of studies show that if you're abused as a kid, you're going to end up abused as an adult. And why is that? Because it's the people that you select in your life. Right? So this is the kind of thing where it's like if you're in this situation and people are expecting her to act like a porn star but don't do anything in return, the question is why do you continue a relationship with that person? Right? There's something keeping you there. So this is something that a lot of times we forget. This is what I've learned as a psychiatrist. I feel like I'm talking a lot about clinical experience. See I used to think that people who were in abusive relationships were stupid. That was the height of my arrogance. What I've come to now realize is that if someone is in a bad relationship, all human beings only do things that are good for them. This is number one. Look at how we're wired, evolutionary. So the question is why would someone stay in an abusive relationship? It's because what they get out of the relationship is worth more than the abuse that they tolerate. I used to be so arrogant thinking this is wrong. No, I didn't understand that in order for you to engage in an abusive relationship, you must be getting something else that is worth the abuse. Why do people stay in shitty jobs? Because quitting is not an option. Because I have children to support. And I can't afford to not quit. That's why people stay in shitty jobs. Why do people stay in shitty relationships? Because the overpowering loneliness and suicidality is only kept at bay when someone makes me feel like I'm a decent human being because I do what they want me to do in bed and I don't want to do it. But at least I get accepted by one person. All I have to do is something that I'm sexually uncomfortable with. But at least they're there. At least they accept me. They don't reject me. And every other person on the planet is rejecting me. I have no one left. This is the one person that I have. And this is why abusers, what they do is they isolate people. This is how they create the abusive relationship. See, when I'm the only person that you have left and I'm abusive, you have to stay with me because the other alternative is no one and you need someone. So the more that someone gets isolated, the more the abuse can escalate. Very simple. And the really crazy thing here is why don't people just make friends with healthy people? I'll tell you why and we'll see right now. Can y'all guess? Because of this. But my brain says dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot. Not this in this particular case. But because my brain says if this person is nice to me, they're going to end up abusing me. Because that's what my parents did. They apologized and they got me lots of gifts. And then they were physically abusive the next day. Because it's terrifying to be with someone who may actually be a decent human being. It's very scary if you've never seen it before. See, this is something that we understand as human beings when we see animals. So we'll see some abused cat or dog that's cowering in the corner. There's very heartwarming videos on TikTok or whatever of like, you know, like some human being sits next to them and over time, you know, it's a 60 second short, which happened over the course of a month, which makes us feel really good. But what does it take to rewire that dog? We'll see this over the course of years even. Oh, look at this dog and how healthy it is now. It makes us feel so good. What does it take for a dog who arguably has a less sophisticated psychology than we do? It takes unconditional patience, love and respect from a human being, including meeting all of your material needs for months in order to win over a dog. And we wonder why are abused people still abused and why don't they get better? Because which human being has an unconditional amount of time, energy, love, meeting your material needs to help a human being trust other human beings again? No one. No one has that kind of time. No one has that kind of energy because I have my own shit that I'm dealing with and I'm not responsible for you. You're responsible for yourself. Independence and equality. You take care of you. I'll take care of me. So I was working with someone at a tech company and they had this interesting phrase, FIIV. Oh, sorry, FUIV. Fuck you. I'm vested. So they worked at a very, very lucrative tech company where once your stock options vest, there was basically a generation of employees that were set for life. And so their attitude is, fuck you, I'm vested, so I'm set. You can go do whatever you want to. I don't give a fuck. This is the attitude that we have in life. I'm going to take care of mine and you take care of yours. Maybe when I take care of mine, I will be charitable. And that's good. I'm not going to do anything wrong. Charity isn't bad. But the whole point is that that doesn't work. We need someone to take care of you today. We need someone to give you a hug today. We need someone to give you support today. We can't wait until some people win the game of life and then what percentage of them are deign to be charitable to the rest of us. And I'm not trying to dog them for their charity. It's good that they're being charitable. But I'm saying what would the world look like if we didn't wait to win the game to become charitable? Right now we have a society where if I've got, I'm going to wait until I'm full and I'm going to give my leftovers to someone else. We have very few people who say, I have one sandwich. You can have half and I'll stay hungry. This is the world that we live in today. And there are other complications there because even if you get financial security, someone can take it away. And this is a very real threat, by the way, because the moment that you get money, like people will start suing you. So even if you have money, everyone thinks, oh, you've won the game of life. If you have money, you haven't won the game of life. In a lot of ways, notorious B.I.G. had it right. If I'm quoting this properly, no money, no problems. You can look at this. A really good example of this is look at lottery winners. Lottery winners will end up everywhere from destitute to murdered. Statistics on lottery winners are really bad. And we think money solves all of our problems. And I'm not saying that money will solve a lot of people's problems. Don't get me wrong. It helps with security, helps with mental health. It's very good. But the basic problem that we have is that people aren't taking care of each other. Okay. So kind of going back to this, oh, you know, how do I convince people? I think you first have to start by understanding their perspective and then try to give them alternate reality experiences. Right? So like this is the kind of thing where I don't know if you can convince someone that their relationship is wrong, but if there's a group of 30-somethings who's talking to a 20-something, sharing with the 20-something what your experience of life is. So if there are other women in the group who say this is what my romantic and sexual relationship is like, this is what my romantic sexual relationship is like, this is the way, and there are dudes in the group who say this is how I treat my girlfriend or wife or whatever, and then they'll start to see a different reality. You just have to show them your reality. And you have to understand theirs. Okay. My porn use is a direct symptom of never having had a relationship. Is there still hope for me to mitigate this dependency? The way things are going in regards to the state of relationships, probably not, but miracles happen, I guess. As a young male and a declining consumer of porn, I have mixed bag of thoughts on it. On the one hand, I don't believe porn, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay. So let's deal with the top one first, okay? So is there still hope for me to mitigate this dependency? So the answer to this question, like most questions in life, is it depends. See, sometimes we have this problem of chicken or egg. I watch porn. That makes it hard for me to engage in relationships. I don't have a relationship, so I watch porn. This is a vicious cycle. So the good news is that any time you have a vicious cycle, it moves in both directions, because this is basically a law of physics. I think it applies to psychology as well. And I'll give you all a simple example of this. So in psychiatry, we have this concept of dual diagnosis. So you have a patient who has something like a mood disorder, like major depressive disorder, and they have something like a chemical dependency, like alcohol use disorder. And for a long time, people were wondering which one do you treat first? Because the more alcohol you drink, the more your mood will worsen. And the more your mood worsens, the more dependent you become on alcohol for emotional regulation. And the answer is you've got to treat both at the same time. It isn't which one comes first. So when I work with people who struggle with pornography addiction, what I tend to find is that you have to work on both fronts at the same time. So a healthy relationship will help you develop a healthy relationship with pornography, and a healthy relationship with pornography will help you develop a healthy relationship with another human being. Both are true. You just have to flip the cycle. So oftentimes, what this means is emotional regulation is at the root of it. So I'll give you all a simple example of this. So let's say that I've never had a girlfriend. So if I think about all the things that I do in order to get a girlfriend or boyfriend, will come with some emotional difficulty, anxiety, low self-esteem, shame. And now the problem is that when I feel those emotions, I have one really good tool at my disposal, which is pornography, because it shuts down my emotional thinking. It shuts down my limbic system. It gives me some sense of dopamine. It gives me some sense of relief. So the problem is I'm kind of stuck, because if I try to engage in a relationship, it feels emotionally painful. And sometimes it is very emotionally painful because I get rejected and whatnot. And then I have one thing, I have one safe place to go, which is pornography. So as long as this dynamic exists, it's very hard to change. But if the dynamic changes, your whole life will change. And this is why when I work with people who have pornography problems, usually I focus on two things. There are basically two important things that most people who struggle with porn addiction are missing in their lives. And if they can build these two things, a porn addiction will melt away. The first is emotional regulation skills. So let's understand why. The first thing is that as you engage in emotional regulation skills, your need for pornography will go down. The second thing is that as you engage in emotional regulation skills, the things that keep you trapped with pornography become easier to deal with. So if I can regulate my emotions and I no longer need porn to manage my anxiety, that means now I have a way of managing anxiety. Once I can manage anxiety, then I can go on a date more easily. So you get double bang for your buck. Emotional regulation is the start of it. Second thing is building a meaningful life. So we know that there are a couple variables that strongly correlate with pornography addiction, and meaninglessness is one of them. So you have to have a reason not to jerk off, basically. So if you look at people who are very addicted to pornography, they oftentimes have some emptiness in their life. There are absolutely people who are addicted who have healthy... or not healthy, but they have relationships, they have fulfilling careers... not fulfilling, but they have successful careers and arguably successful relationships. So you can absolutely be addicted without this stuff. But generally speaking, the more meaninglessness you feel in your life, the more likely you are to be addicted to pornography, and there's research to support that. It's one of the two variables that correlates very tightly. So the second thing that we have to do to overcome pornography is build a life that's worth living. This is also where the emotional regulation skills come in. The other cool thing is that as you build a life that is worth living, then what happens is it becomes easier to date. Because now you have a life that is good and hopefully full in some way. And people will be attracted to that. People will want to be a part of that. You'll have confidence, you'll have respect, you'll have some buffer against rejection. And I've never seen a dating profile that's like, hey, I'm looking for someone who's like an absolute loser and going nowhere in life and has no direction. That's what I'm really looking for. That's not what people are looking for. Why? Why aren't we looking for that? Because we don't have that, and we're hoping if we start dating someone, they can pull us along. Right? I'm looking to date someone who has their shit figured out because I don't. And one of us, in order for this relationship to succeed, has to know what the fuck they're doing and has to have some degree of stability. Right? Why are y'all even listening to this? Because y'all have a perception that I have my shit figured out. So we're going to go listen to the people. We're going to associate with the people. We're going to learn from the people who have their shit figured out. Right? Do I have my shit figured out? I'll leave that to y'all to judge. Okay? So in terms of pornography, you have to build a life that is worth living. And this is what's so confusing, because as human beings, when we see a fire, what we think is, how do I put out the fire? We don't think about how do I stop feeding the fire. Right? Everyone's like, oh, like, you know, so when there's like an oil fire, people will pour water over it, which just creates more problems. Instead of what you need, just cover it with a lid. Deprive the oxygen. So if you want to conquer pornography addiction, you need to starve it. Deprive it of what keeps it going. Deprive it of what keeps it going. Because trying to fight against the pornography addiction doesn't work. This is like pouring water on an oil fire. It just amplifies things. And let's understand why. So any time I try to conquer the porn addiction, the first thing is that there's conflict in the mind. There's tension in the mind. And on some days I win, and on some days that I lose. So let's understand what happens. On a day that I win, I feel good about myself, but for how long? Just until the urge arises again. And if I had a 100% willpower success rate, I wouldn't be addicted in the first place. So we're starting from a situation where our willpower has a 50% chance of winning. And then what happens is I win today and I lose tomorrow. What happens? I feel ashamed of myself. I beat myself up because I did it yesterday. Why can't I do it today? The more that the negative emotions increase, the more I'm feeding the addiction. Self-judgment. Shame. The more I'm sabotaging, now that I feel ashamed of myself, I feel pathetic, I feel powerless. Oh my God, let me make a dating profile. Hi, my name is Alok. I'm pathetic, I'm powerless, I'm addicted to porn. On some days I do a good job, on some days I do a shitty job. We don't make that kind of profile because no one's going to date us. So instead what do I do? I put the best foot forward, right? Because that's what everyone tells me. Put your best foot forward. Be your best you. And then you pretend to be something. And then you show up on your date. And here you pretended to be this thing, but on the inside here's me, I'm pathetic, I'm ashamed, I'm whatever, I'm weak. And then the human being who's sitting across from you detects the disconnect. And what we need for relationship building is usually some sense of authenticity or a very, very, very good way of concealing yourself. You either have to be very sociopathic, so this is a problem with pornography addicts, is they're not sociopathic enough. They're not tricky enough. Their emotions leak out. So now we create this situation where like I'm winning on some days, I'm losing on some days, I'm increasing the shame. The more I increase the shame, the more I lean into pornography, the more I lean into pornography, the more cascading negative effects that it has on my physiology. I can't engage in relationships. So interestingly enough, one of the biggest things that I work on when I'm working with someone with an addiction is to not solve the addiction in isolation. By all means, try to cut back, build emotional regulation skills, but don't stop living your life because you're addicted to pornography. Start building a life anyway. And if we can do that, we can make a vicious cycle in the other direction. So we have a saying in psychiatry that all boats rise and fall together. Not just psychiatry, medicine. So when you get heart failure, you'll get kidney problems. Cardio renal syndrome. When you have heart failure, you'll get lung problems. When you have lung problems, you'll strain the heart. See, when fluid fills up in my lungs, I can't absorb oxygen as much. If I can't absorb oxygen as much, my blood has a lower level of oxygen. If my blood has a lower level of oxygen, I need more blood to oxygenate my cells. If I need more blood to oxygenate my cells, then my heart has to pump faster and harder. Now I've created a huge problem because now the heart is working more. Where does the heart get the oxygen? Because now we've increased the physiologic demands on the heart. So it's working more with less oxygen. Then what happens is the heart poops out. As the heart poops out, it sends less blood through the the lungs, which in turn, so its pumping power decreases as the pumping power decreases in the left ventricle, then what happens is our pulmonary circulation backs up even more and we get more fluid in the lungs. Same thing, physiology, psychology, all the same. It's cool like that. But the good news is that we can fix everything together. As you develop some meaning in life, as you develop some emotional regulation skills, you will be more attractive. And the most important thing to learn if you're addicted to pornography is not to wait to move forward in life. See the biggest problem, mistake that people make is they say I have to fix this, then I can do this. Doesn't work like that. That's how you want it. Why do you want to fix one problem before you tackle the next? Because you want that second problem to be easy. You look at that problem and you say this is hard, I want to make it easy. So let me fix this first. The reason we try to sequentially solve problems in our life is because we are afraid of the difficulty. We are afraid of the failure. The more that you accept that is going to be hard and you are going to fail, and I am not going to let that stop me. This is when everything will turn around. This is also what we know, all boats rise and fall together. This is what's cool. So in the case of cardiopulmonary failure, we're going to give digoxin. We're going to increase the contractile strength of the heart. We're going to give leucinepril. We're going to decrease the blood pressure that the heart is pumping against. We're going to start fixing the problem. And as we fix the problem, as we increase the contractile strength of the heart, as we decrease our peripheral blood pressure, the pressure goes down. The heart starts to relax. As the heart starts to relax, its oxygen demands go down. As its oxygen demands go down, it starts to do better. As it starts to do better, it pumps more. As it pumps more, the fluid that is backed up in our lungs decreases. As the fluid that backs up in our lungs decreases, we get more oxygen transfer. Now our blood is more oxygenated, which means the heart has to work less hard because now the blood is full of oxygen, so I don't have to pump twice as much. As I don't have to pump twice as much, ah, cool. Now the heart can relax. We can reverse the pressure. We can reverse the cycle. In both scenarios. In psychology too. If we can cut back on your alcohol consumption, your depression will get better. If your depression gets better, you will naturally cut back on your alcohol consumption. Solve both problems at the same time. Am I screwed? No. Can you fix one problem? No. Can you fix both problems? Yes. If you work on them at the same time. Biggest mistake we make is we try to fix one thing at a time. You have to fix everything all at once. In the capacity that you have. Right, so you don't have to fix everything all at once, but work on everything. Work on multiple things a day. That's when you'll really start to see change. Okay. Last one. I'm tired, but this one's too good. So I mixed feelings about this video. I made a video that was kind of inspired some time ago about why therapy is so important. So I made a video that was kind of inspired some time ago about why therapy is so important. Some time ago about why therapy sucks for men. And I say this as a psychiatrist. And in the video I even talk a little bit about how to get the most out of therapy. This is the video that in some ways I felt the saddest to make. That this video had to be made. And also that people resonated with it so much. This really showed me how challenging the world we live in is. Also, interestingly enough, you guys just look at the video that was made 1.5 million two years ago, 1.95 months ago. If you're someone who looks at YouTube performance, you will say, wow, this video is a resounding success. This video terrifies me. I wish this video failed. I'm serious. I would rather have this video fail and people not resonate in it than people resonate with it this much. This is scary. So let's look at some of the comments. I've had male and female therapists. The ones that did the best work with me were always paternal IMO. They didn't, how does that make you feel too much? They said you're in a cycle or how can you overcome the way that you feel about or interact with this so you can be better, so you can better your life. They're understanding but straightforward, compassionate, but corrective. Even when I want to just complain and vent and blame my sad circumstances or my abusers, I'm told instead, you have experienced tragedy, but I'm here to help you get stability, not rub your back through crisis. The dialogue ultimately encourages and focuses on action, or at least proactive mental overhaul, and I believe this is the healthy middle ground. I've never been to therapy or anything, but the few therapists and psychologists I've known over the years have completely put me off of ever trying. The fact that none of them were ever solution oriented is what keeps me from ever going. What I honestly need is just solutions to things. I don't know what my problems are in my hang ups. I usually just need someone to tell me here's how you fix it and then push me to fix it. They go on to talk about how their girlfriend did that. So let's understand a couple things about therapy. The first is that the field of therapy is currently being threatened by the field of coaching. So I hear this a lot when I talk to my colleagues who are therapists. There's almost always this defensiveness. And I remember reading some supervision cases and things like that where a therapist was saying my patient came to me recently and said that my coach really helped me with this problem. And I feel a lot better now. And the therapist feels bad because they say we've been working on this problem for two years. So this therapist goes to supervision and all the other therapists say well the patient is just crediting the coach but you've been working on it. So it's kind of like you got them 90% of the way there and the coach swept in and gave them the victory. But you should not feel bad because you did a good job. And the therapist was like I don't know if I'm doing something right or I'm doing something wrong. And everyone's like no you're doing a good job. How do we know that? See when a patient comes to you and says this person was able to help me in this way. We have to be very careful as the field of therapy. Because our methodologies are the best that are out there scientifically. And they don't work for everyone. And I think what's going on is for a long time we had a couple of historic things happen in therapy. The first is an emphasis on emotions. And this is not a bad thing by the way. So we discovered that there was a subset of patients that you could give logical answers to and they would not change. You can tell someone hey alcohol is bad for you. Here are all the logical reasons why it doesn't cause them to stop drinking. Or does it? So what happened in therapy is that we realized that as long as there is an underlying undigested emotion that drives all of these patterns, this pattern will continue. And I think this was a good finding. There's plenty of scientific evidence for it. But I think we also made a few mistakes. Which is that if you look at some of the biases in therapy, there are a few. The first is that therapy is engaged in by people who are traditionally wealthy. It's a luxury. Right? You go to fucking Manhattan or downtown Boston, everyone's in therapy. You go to rural Texas. There's not a therapist within 60 miles. So therapy is engaged in by the rich. Second problem is that therapy has historically had women as patients. And so this is my belief. There's some extrapolative evidence to support this, but there aren't really strong studies. So this is my opinion. So there's not supported 100% by science. That since the majority of therapists are women, and the majority of patients are women, what we tend to select for is emotional language. So if we look at women, women, I think, this is also not, I don't know if this is a statement of fact, but generally speaking, get a lot more mileage out of processing emotions than men do. Men have a bias for whatever reason, whether it's conditioning or biology, we want plans, actions. So when I was training to be a therapist, I was actually actively disincentivized to problem solve with my patients. I was told that problem solving is bad. And even when we, when I teach in our coaching at the Healthy Gamer Institute, when I'm teaching principles of coaching, I actively discourage problem solving. Okay, so I do it too, and there's a good reason to do it. But here's what I learned. If you all want to know honestly, the reason I started Healthy Gamer is because I had a group of video game addicts in my office. And what I found is I tried to do psychotherapy with them is that what helped them was not psychotherapy, it was psychoeducation. Literally. I had 50, I had the same conversation 50 times with 50 different people where I explained to them this is what your brain is doing. This is what the video game does to your brain. This is why it is hard for you to control yourself. Here is how you control yourself. If you do A, B, and C, I laid out the science, the neuroscience and psychology of video gaming. And I gave them a solution for a path forward. And they got better. And then I realized I'm not actually doing psychotherapy. Because psychotherapy is individual. Tell me about your life, tell me about this, tell me about this, tell me about this. How are your parents, how is this? How do you feel? I wasn't doing that. Right, so there was a part of that. But I started to realize there is a lot of common stuff. So I was doing psychotherapy with them in some way. But there was a larger psychoeducation component than with a different group of people. And so I started to wonder can I have one conversation publicly and can anyone who is listening benefit? Oh, wow. I had no idea what I was getting into. I had no idea how much benefit there was. And we have some very preliminary data, it's not an IRB approved study or anything like that, that even watching our content potentially improves depression and anxiety by 8 to 9 percent. That's pretty good. Antidepressant medication will get you 30 to 40 percent. Right, so that's very not controlled data. So there's a signal there just so you all understand. I'm not saying that watching our content will do this. We detected a bizarre signal that now is, so I want you all to understand this. Anytime we do a study, we have to have a hypothesis. In order to have a hypothesis, we have to start with some kind of observation. So we have a retrospective, uncontrolled observation of a mental health improvement from watching our content. It is large enough to make us wonder hey, this should be studied. There could be something real going on or it could be false. We don't know yet. Do you all understand that nuance? And so now what I find is when I work with men, especially, what they need is education. They need to understand why they have emotions. What's the purpose of emotions? They need to understand how they function. What is going on inside you? What I basically do is take an engineering approach with my male patients. Here is the diagram of your physiology and your neuroscience. For example, very simple things. Cortisol and adrenaline collapse your peripheral vision from 180 degrees to 30 degrees. Anytime you have stress and adrenaline, cortisol and adrenaline, it will also collapse your peripheral vision of thinking. You will not be able to consider alternatives if you are stressed. Literally. It is physiologically and neuroscientifically your brain is handicapped. So anytime a male patient of mine is stressed out and thinks everything is going wrong, I will ask them one question. What's your stress level? Very high. What does that do to your thoughts? Makes it impossible for me to see alternatives. Can you see alternatives? No. How do we fix this? Reduce my stress. How can you reduce your stress? I'm going to go for a walk with my dog, I'm going to meditate, and I'm going to hit the gym. Good. Go today, after we're done, go take your dog for a walk, hit the gym, try to get a good night's sleep, meditate, text me tomorrow with three other options for what you can do. Boom! Done. It's amazing how well it works. You teach people how their mind works. You teach them how their physiology works. And suddenly, it's like everyone is going through life blind. You're trying to drive a car, but you've got a blindfold on. And no wonder you keep on getting into wrecks. Once you understand that your mind cannot see additional solutions, and you can change your physiology to see additional solutions, the men in my practice do so much better. And this is where we have this principle in therapy, and by the way, like I'm not dogging on therapy because let's remember one important thing. I was trained by some very good therapists. And so all of the conclusions that I have come from the training of excellent supervisors. They taught me the fundamentals of therapy. Not the structure, not what's at the end. What is the fundamental of therapy? And since they taught me this, I was able to perceive this. I would be nowhere, it's not that therapists are bad, it's that I had some of the most brilliant therapists on the world who did such a good job at teaching me therapy, that I was able to help my patients. The only difference is what I was doing is not something that was entirely traditional. That's the only difference. But even then, the people who taught me taught me how to be successful and non-traditional. You don't have to follow a script, you need to understand the fundamentals of the principles at play. And even teaching men something as simple as why do we have emotions? Emotions are a source of information and emotions are a source of motivation. And so so many of the men that I work with, they try to avoid their emotions. Avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid. And in doing so, they are literally blindfolding themselves. They are handicapping themselves because we have these circuits in our brain that are so important that even animals have them, reptiles have them. So functionally, the functional utility of your emotional circuitry is astronomical. It gives us motivation and information. What are the two most common problems that I hear from men today? I don't know what to do and I can't get started. Well, what the fuck, bro? If you are sabotaging your emotional circuitry, no wonder you don't know what to do and no wonder you don't know how to get started. I don't feel like it. Well shit, maybe stop sabotaging your emotional circuitry. How are we sabotaging our emotional circuitry? Technology substances. Number one and number two. Addiction rates are so much higher, substance use disorders are so much higher in men. Men are also more sociopathic, potentially more narcissistic. What are the features of narcissism and sociopathy? Emotional changes. Sociopathy is inability to feel emotions. These are conditioned. We say men are evil because they're sociopaths. They're not evil because they're sociopaths. They're sociopaths to survive their emotional state. We induce features of sociopathy even in psychiatrists and therapists. This is part of the training to emotionally separate yourself, to reduce your empathy otherwise you'll get torn apart. For some men, sociopathy is a survival mechanism against our emotions. And we get demonized for it. Should we get demonized for sociopathic behavior that hurts people? Absolutely. Absolutely. But I've helped more people. I mean, I haven't helped anyone by punishing them, but I've helped plenty of people who test highly on the sociopathy scale by teaching them this. So if you're a man alive today and you're saying, and these are the other problems, if you're numb to your emotions, your normative male alexithymia, which we've talked about, so alexithymia is colorblindness to your internal emotional state, and in the scientific literature, we use this term called normative male alexithymia. What does that mean? That means that alexithymia is normal in men. We're all emotionally colorblind. And then what happens is we have a bunch of therapists who are trained to ask people how do you feel? And we as men don't know. And so then we feel stupid. And we feel like we're not doing therapy right. Because our therapist continues to insist, how do you feel, how do you feel? Let's get in touch with your emotions. Let's get in touch with your emotions. Let's get in touch with your emotions. And then men leave. Doesn't help. And then this is where we get into a big problem in therapy. Because then the therapist concludes, oh, that person's emotions were too deeply buried. If they had worked harder and if they had gotten to their emotions, I would have been able to help them. It is a non-falsifiable hypothesis. It was recently an interesting video that I saw about people talking about bad experiences in therapy. And I think this is one of the reasons. As a profession, I think we've become arrogant. Myself included. Like I'm not saying I'm separate from that. Right? Because like, it's interesting. Like no one ever asks, if a patient doesn't show up, they're like, oh, I'm not going to do that. They're like, oh, I'm not going to do that. No one ever asks, if a patient doesn't show up, no therapist tracks them down and asks, hey, why didn't you show up? What could I have done better? No one does that. Just let them go. They weren't ready. Maybe someone does that. I don't know. I've never heard of it. In some ways, we're even actively, ethically, we think it's against our system. So it's unethical to do that. That's part of the reason that we don't do it. Because we've concluded as the field of therapy is that when a patient is asking them, is bothering them, you should respect their autonomy, which is a good ethical argument. What I'm saying though is when that becomes a good ethical argument, what are we opening ourselves up to as a profession? We are opening ourselves up to a lack of feedback when we fail. It's the price that we pay for this ethical consideration. So we don't get good feedback. So if you're a man, I strongly encourage you to get therapy. I'm serious. I'm saying this. So just because there are weaknesses to the profession does not mean that it is a bad thing. In fact, we still remain, I started this statement, I'll repeat it again, that therapy is the best evidence-based intervention that we have for most mental illnesses. It's the best we've got. And it could be better. And if you go to a therapist and you feel like using this as a tool, and you feel like using this language of emotions doesn't work for you, you can tell them, hey, I'm interested in solutions. And then the worst thing that can happen is a therapist can say, oh, how does finding a solution make you feel? Good. Right? You can tell them that I'm concerned that I may benefit from a fair amount of psychoeducation. So I'd like to understand how things like mental illness work. I think that would be what would be helpful for me. So you can tell them that this is what I want. And then if your therapist insists on talking about feelings and can't explain to you why talking about feelings is important, then you can even ask them, you can say, hey, you keep on asking me how I feel. I'd appreciate it if we could take a different approach besides just asking me about my feelings. Are you capable of doing that? Can you make a referral to someone who is less focused on feelings and more focused on cognition or psychoeducation? It's all you have to do. Right? And that's fine. If the therapist gets offended by that, then that's their problem. Let them handle it in supervision. Not every therapist is perfect for every patient. Fit is the most important thing. The last thing that I'll kind of share with you all just because I found this to be so incredibly helpful with the men that I work with is anytime you feel an emotion, if you really want to understand the emotion, ask yourself two questions. The first is what is this emotion telling me? What is the information that my brain is conveying to me because of this emotion? So it's a cognitive. So if I walk into a room and everyone is laughing and one person makes eye contact, sees that I walk into the room, coughs and does that, and then everyone shuts the fuck up, emotionally I feel bad. Why? Because my emotion is telling me something. See, this is important to understand. Emotion is our fastest source of information. Without emotion, it would take a long time to figure out what was happening and a long time to act. The whole point of emotion is someone slaps me across the face before I even realize what's going on, I'm slapping back. What is the information that this, what is this shame telling me? We get so caught up in it that we don't even realize my brain is trying to tell me something. What is it trying to tell me? And this is where you're, and this is where your first reaction is it'll tell you something bad. So you take the first three things that it's telling you, you write them down and then you come up with seven more bits of information. The real learning is going to be in the latter seven, not the first three. Because emotions are processing a ton of information. So quickly. So each piece of emotion is telling you ten different things. And your learning will happen in numbers four through ten, four through ten, not numbers one through three. Although that can be helpful too. The second thing is what is this emotion motivating me to do? What would fix this emotion? So I'll give you all an example. Right? Someone, let's say someone makes me feel guilty. And then I try to make the guilt go away by giving them what they want. Hey bro, can I borrow a hundred bucks? You still haven't paid me back for the last two times I borrowed you money. Bro, oh my god, like I can't believe like you're so lucky and like you work at Google and like you've got all this money and like some of us aren't quite as fortunate as you. And you're like dogging me about money all the time. I thought we were like closer friends than that. Boom. Guilt. What makes the guilt go away? Giving them money. But when you give them money, how do you feel? Bad. You feel taken advantage of. And then you're stuck because you're ping ponging between negative emotions. This is what creates negative patterns in life, especially for men, is ping ponging between negative emotions. Trying to keep, it's like you're defending a city that is under siege. And different emotions are attacking you from different sides. From the north face, it's guilt. From the east face, it's anger at feeling guilty. From the south face, it's hopelessness and sadness that you've been in this cycle between getting pissed at your friends and being manipulated by your friends. And this is never going to get better. And from the west face, it's shame. Because holy shit, you're so pathetic and this is never going to get better. And if you were a better man, and if you had a bigger set of balls, if you had a bigger dick, if you were more manly, you wouldn't have this problem. So then you beat yourself up. And then you go back. The west and the east face turns back into anger. Now you're angry with yourself. And so what we try to do is we try to dodge one emotion and we just end up creating another one. So if you really ask yourself, what is this emotion telling me to do? What is the anger telling you to do? What is the shame telling you to do? The shame and the anger are telling you to change your situation. Don't have a relationship with this person. Set a limit with them. Call them out on their bullshit. Tell them, hey, I've let you borrow $200. And instead of gratitude, I get entitlement for you. I raise concern that you haven't paid me back and your response is to try to guilt trip me? I'm not so sure that this relationship is worth it for me anymore. Like, I'm happy to help you out. But your response when I help you out, I don't think demonstrates good friendship. Now when you hear me say that, if you have a positive response, you need to change the way that you're living your life. If that resonates with you and you have an emotional response, I wish I could do that. Once again, that emotional response is emotions are giving you information and they're giving you motivation. By all means, set those boundaries. Have conversations with your friends if you feel taken advantage of. Say, hey, I don't feel okay about this. Why do you say these things to me? Well, because you're so lucky you have a job at Google. Why do you ask me for $100 instead of help getting your resume together? Why don't you ask me for help with putting your own shit together and getting your life in order instead of heating me up for money and then making me feel guilty? Why do you reject my actual attempts to help your situation? These are the conversations that especially as a man, I feel like I need to have more and more with men. The good news is that we're really good at handling this stuff. Call them out on their bullshit. And if it feels righteous and good to you, that once again is information and motivation. So this is what I think we need to teach people. And the beautiful thing is that we have a lot of really great therapists out there who figured this out. Such a beautiful phrase. You've been through tragedy, your life sucks. My job is to help you get stable, not rub your back. Sometimes the job of a therapist is to rub someone's back through a crisis. Sometimes it's to help them gain stability. And a good therapist is able to tell the difference. And a good therapist is able to do both. Sometimes we're naturally gifted at one over the other. And here I am talking about what makes a good therapist in the bathroom. This is humbly my experience. I'm not saying that you should be a good therapist, but I'm saying that you should be a good therapist. And I'm not saying that you should be a bad therapist. This is my experience. This is what I've seen. And one of the things that I've learned as a therapist is that I'm not the best therapist for everybody. I recognize that there are some things, sometimes my patients need something that I can't provide for them. And honestly, the best thing that I can do for them is to send them to a colleague of mine who really understands this problem and has really good outcomes with them. So it's challenging. But I think as men, we've got to learn certain basic things about how we work. I hope you all are able to find therapists that are good for you. I think it's totally fine to ask for a referral if it's not working out. I think it's also totally fine to offer some direction in therapy. Remember, therapy is a partnership, not a dictatorship. And so one of the best things, one of the things that I appreciate the most is when a patient walks into my office and says, this is what I'm looking for. Can you help me with this? It helps me a lot because I know, right? Like this is good. And even what's also good is I have to set my ego aside. But if a patient says, this is not working for me, it hurts to hear. But that's good. It's healthy. We shouldn't avoid it just because it hurts, especially if the patient isn't getting better. In this too, I believe all of this stuff because I had some amazing therapists as teachers. And I believe all this stuff because I've had a lot of patients who have had very bad experiences. I've had family members who've had bad experiences. Because the other thing that we don't realize is that therapists on the whole are burnt out as fuck. So when therapists are burnt out, it's hard for them to do their job. So it's not a weakness of an individual therapist. They too are victims of their circumstances. Okay. So we're at time for the day. I just want to thank all of you for making this happen. So we would not be anywhere without your participation. So I don't thank you just for your support. I thank you for your participation. Because all the material that I have to go on is literally what y'all give me. Right? Because unless these people were thoughtful enough and motivated enough to make these comments, this stream would not be possible. Even these videos are possible because someone posted. And even the people like my patients and my teachers who allow me to make these videos, this is what this is. I mean, everyone thinks Dr. K is a healthy gamer and oh my god, Dr. K, Dr. K, Dr. K. And I get that. I appreciate it. I have some hand to play. There's no question. I'm not going to adopt false humility here. But the one thing that I really, really, really love and respect is that I literally cannot do this without you. Otherwise, it'd be me talking to an empty room. It is with the interaction that y'all tell me what direction to go. And we go there together. That's the whole point. We go there together. That's what therapy is about. It's about going somewhere together. The last thing is that we try to do what we do to fix the problems as I see them. So I can't be a therapist for everybody, but what I can do is when I said I started Healthy Gamer because I was having the same conversation with 50 people, that information, that understanding, that know-how is what we try to build. So whether that's a lecture or a live stream like today, whether that's a video that's uploaded to a particular platform, whether that's something like a book or whether that's something like Dr. K's Guide. So in Dr. K's Guide, what I really try to do is take everything that I've learned and all of the stuff that is on repeat for my patients, I've tried to turn into an educational resource. And the other thing that I really find is that I've worked with some people now who have watched my content. And we move so much faster because I don't have to explain the basics to them. And I've heard from so many people in the community that watching something like Dr. K's Guide has helped them accelerate in their therapy or help them get into therapy or help them solve this problem. That's why we build it. Because there are scientific principles of how the mind works, how the brain works. And the whole problem with the world today is we don't know what they are, but the people who want to control our behavior do. This is why we don't have direction in life. This is why we have a generation of people who's addicted to pornography and video games. Because the people who make it know this stuff and we don't. We're being attacked on all sides. They've got weapons and we don't. So our mission is, I can't be everyone's therapist, we can't solve the world's mental health crisis, we can't do it. But what I'm going to do is give y'all a fighting chance. That's my goal. At least let's balance things a little bit. You're probably still screwed. But we're going to give you the tools to go down fighting. And the beautiful thing is that I'm grateful, but it appears that when some of y'all have some of these tools, you're able to win. And I certainly don't think that you're winning because of us. You're winning because of you. We have some small thing, right? You have to swing the sword, but we can give you the sword. That's all we're doing. And honestly, I believe that. I just don't think it's neuroscientifically possible for some guy to say something on the internet and create some kind of really profound change in your life. All I can give you is the tools. And that's what we've designed. What we're really trying to do is best as we can. And we see good outcomes. So thank you all so much for being here, for making this possible, and for supporting us. The more that you support us, the more that we're going to do with it. And if y'all, if participation is all you're doing, just showing up and watching is fine. You can send links to other people. By the way, if you guys want to check out some videos, if y'all are relatively new to the community, strongly recommend you check out all the ones that we have, right? So some of these things like Dr. K's Guide cost money. So clearly we've got a lot of good resources out there that are absolutely free. So if y'all haven't checked out these videos, there's a reason why they have millions of views. We hope to help y'all in whatever capacity we are able to, and in whatever capacity that you can afford. And if you guys can help us with giving us some kind of resources, whether, and that, you can give us resources, or you can link to things, send stuff to your friends, this is what we're trying to do. And one of the things that will help us the most right now, frankly, is ordering our book. I hope it will help y'all. Get it for your parents, get it for your friends, get it for your parents who have nieces, I mean your brothers and sisters who have nieces and nephews, get it for yourself if you want to learn how to communicate. And that will give us more fuel. And I'm working on number two and number three. But that too, whether those get published or not, depends on whether my publisher is happy with the performance of this book. So this is the kind of thing where I can write the books, but literally whether you will ever get access to them, I mean there's some things, I suppose I could self-publish and stuff like that, but that has a whole set of problems with it. So this is the kind of thing where this is a partnership. And so what I am capable of depends on you. So if this book does well, I have the license to write two more. If it doesn't do well, then it just becomes more challenging. Doesn't mean that I'm going to give up. So literally whether this stuff happens or not depends more on you than it does on me. I'm going to do my part, you can do your part if you feel comfortable with it. If you don't feel comfortable, you're like, fuck this guy. I don't want to buy his book. Fair enough. I'm trying to be as transparent and authentic with you all as I can about how I view this stuff, what your contribution is. Okay? So thank you all so much for coming today. I hope this has been helpful. Huge shout out to everyone that has posted on subreddit, commented on videos, shared stuff. That is really the most important thing. It is about the community more than anything else. And this is what's super cool. Like, I don't know if you'll get this, but if you all want to see, this is why Healthy Gamer is more than Dr. K. So when this person shares, right, it's just my mind saying you aren't going to find people you resonate with because you never do. And then someone else says strong AF work. Imagine what positive feedback you're giving this person. And this is the problem, is that if Dr. K tells you good job, your mind is like, oh, that's just Dr. K. Dr. K, of course, like, is fucking dumb and he's going to see the goodness in all people and all this kind of stuff. You'll dismiss what I say. You guys see that? I can't do this. This can only be done by Kierith. And this is the other beautiful thing is Dr. K says this stuff. Who knows if it's right? Who knows if it's wrong? I'm the first one that'll say, I don't know if this is right or wrong. It's y'all that have to figure it out. And now Kierith says, holy shit, Kierith sees this and he compliments Reed. And so Reed gets a boost. And Kierith is like, maybe I should try this. And the other cool thing is everyone who is reading this is also like, hey, maybe there's something to this. Maybe I should try it. It's community. Y'all are the ones doing the real magic. See, if I was responsible for most of your change, then everyone in our community would be equally changed. Everyone in our community is not equally changed. What is the scientific, the only science, not only scientific, the best scientific hypothesis for this is that you have to put in the effort to and if you put it because the stimulus is the same, right? The intervention is the same. Dr. K's lecture. That's the same for everyone who watches it. What determines whether some people get helped and some people don't get helped? It's what you put in. It's way more than me. I can give you the sword, but you have to swing it. So, strong work and let's keep going, chat. I'll see y'all, I think, next week. But I'll be doing some traveling, so schedules are going to be kind of wonky because book out in five days and I have to go and, Hi, I'm Dr. K. I wrote a book. It's called Healthy Gambling. All right, y'all, take care. We'll see y'all when we see you next, which I don't even know. I'm so brain dead. I don't even know what that is.