 Hi, would you ever want to or be willing to do an informational type interview on stream? We've talked a bit about your history and how you got to your point as a psychiatrist, but I and probably other people have several questions on what led you to your path, why the medical field, why a psychiatrist over a psychologist, thoughts on psychotherapy versus medication, what factors do you think led you to being accepted to medical school? Yeah, so I can talk about that now. So it sounds like people are interested in my bio, in my background. What led me to my path? So I'll start and there are a couple of, so the question is what led me to my path, why the medical field, why a psychiatrist over a psychologist, thoughts on psychotherapy versus medication, what factors led you to think, you think led you to being accepted into medical school. So let's start with, okay, let's just start with the first question, okay? So how did I get here? So I think my journey starts with playing a bunch of video, actually, I mean, if you guys really want to get into it, I think my journey starts with playing video games because I was a year ahead. So I went to this like very like small school that had a very high teacher to student ratio. And so in the span of being like in that school for two years, I basically like skipped a grade. And so then what happened is I entered the first grade as like a five-year-old and or six-year-old, I guess, or second grade as a six-year-old or something like that. I was one year younger than than all of my classmates. And so the first thing that happened is I sucked at sports. Because I was like a five-year-old competing against six-year-olds. If you think about that, like a five-year-old is just not going to compete on any level with six-year-olds. And so I think that, you know, what happened is like I started off being bad at sports, and then I gravitated towards video games, because like, in video games, I could be just as good as my colleagues. And the reason that I was I started to believe I was bad at sports and I was unathletic, but the truth was just I was just a year younger. So there's no way that a five-year-old is going to be able to run as fast as a six-year-old. Six-year-olds are OP. Absolutely correct. Unless you're a six-year-old competing against seven-year-olds. And then so I started playing a lot of video games and then like started to sort of become directionless, fall behind, had a bunch of ego and stuff like that in high school. And then basically was failing out of college and then ended up going to India at the age of 21, because my life was going nowhere. I had like less than a 2.0 GPA, was failing, all that good stuff. And when I was in India, like discovered yoga and meditation and really loved it. So I loved that, like so we study stuff, right? Like we study mathematics and we study science and we study neuroscience and we study economics and sociology and psychology. And we formally like sit down and say like, I can get mastery over this field of the world if I sit down and systematically learn it. What I found with like yoga and meditation and Ayurveda was a system to understand myself in like a methodical way. That I can sit down and study who I am and how I work as a person and then I can get better at like being me. And I love that. Like I found answers to so many questions, like everything that we're talking about on stream, like these urges that we have, like I feel like cleaning more after I clean, like how does that work? There is a principle under which that works. Like why you feel like cleaning, why you feel ashamed, why you want to ask someone out, why you can't ask someone out, why you play video games, why you can't stop playing video games, why you can't like start writing a 10-page paper, why you can't start approach reading a really long textbook. This is all random crap, but there's a system to understand how all of it works, right? This is a system of understanding a human being, which is literally what yoga is. Yoga is about understanding, not like asana, which is what they do at yoga studios, but true yoga in its original like form, in its truest form, which didn't really get translated over to the West, didn't really cross the pond, mostly stayed in India, is about understanding how a human being works because there are laws and principles that govern your physiology or neuroscience psychology, right? And so then, like getting back to my life, so I was like, okay, this is really cool that I'm learning all this stuff from a yoga perspective, but I'm a skeptic by nature and I like references, so I'm going to understand the science. So I became a researcher. As I started to have like experiences in meditation that were super trippy and like really cool, I was like, what the F is going on in my brain during these times? Like I have a brain, like how does that work? So I started off doing EEG studies on meditators. So this is measuring the electrical activity in the brain during meditation. And I was like, that's pretty cool. I liked that. And then I started doing neuroscience research. I did that for a couple of years. And then I decided that like I wasn't going to become a monk because I met my wife, fell in love, etc. And so then I was like, well, I have to do something. So what do I want to do? And I decided to become a doctor for a couple of reasons. The truest reason I became a doctor is because one of my teachers told me that unless you can succeed in the material world, you're not going to succeed in the spiritual. Because anything you do in the material world is going to be way easier than what you do in the spiritual world. Because the real world is like, like for noobs, and the spiritual world is for experts. Pros go to the spiritual world. That's what he told me. So I was like, okay, fuck it. I'm going to just set a goal for myself. And it was kind of arbitrary, to be completely honest. It was really somewhat arbitrary. I was like, I'm going to become a doctor. Just because it's hard. Because it's hard. And I have a 2.5 GPA. And so that seems impossible. So I'm going to do that. Because if I can do that, then I'm going to succeed in meditation. That's literally how it worked. And then there were a couple of other factors. So one was that I didn't, while I loved kind of psychology in the mind, I didn't... So Ayurveda doesn't devour, like doesn't separate different fields of medicine. Like they don't think that you don't have a psychiatrist and a cardiologist. You have one person who does everything. And the reason that they do everything, they specialize more in terms of methods, but not like organs. And so what I liked about... So I just didn't believe that you can understand the mind without understanding the body. And that's why I decided to become a psychiatrist instead of a psychologist. Sort of. It's kind of like, it's not quite like that. Because the order of operations was a little bit different. But that's why I like becoming a medical doctor. And I didn't shift gears because I wanted to understand the body as well as the mind. And I know that psychologists don't get a lot of bodily training. And I know that that's kind of how our system works. But I think a lot of emerging evidence around like brain gut stuff clearly demonstrates that there's a link between the body and the mind. And I ultimately, at the end of the day, I feel like if you don't understand the body, you're depriving yourself of a lot of tools to help the mind. That's just a fact. It doesn't mean that psychologists aren't good at what they do. It doesn't mean that they can't do a wonderful job. It's just in my opinion, I wanted to understand it all. Like I like understanding spirituality. I like understanding neuroscience. I like understanding everything. I don't like understanding just one part of something. Like that feels incomplete to me. So it's fine to have a trippy experience in meditation. What's it doing to my brain? I want to know that neuroscientifically. I want to understand how things work. That's why I decided to become a psychiatrist, sort of. When I went to medical school, it was still sort of this idea of like, okay, I'm just going to like set a target and it's gonna be kind of arbitrary. So I actually decided to become an oncologist first and then switch to psychiatry in my fourth year. How do we fix brain gut stuff? We'll talk. So I decided to become a psychiatrist actually in my fourth year because I realized that like, actually, I don't know why I didn't realize this sooner, but I actually really like the mind and that's always been what's interested in me. So I decided to do psychiatry. But I had some thoughts that psychiatrists aren't real doctors and all that good stuff because like my dad was an oncologist and I sort of idealized him and things like that. And like I wanted to be a real doctor because I still had a lot of ego, right? So I wanted to be someone that saves lives and like treats heart attacks and like, I'm going to cure cancer. I'm going to be a surgeon. I was like debating becoming a trauma surgeon for a little while and was like leaning towards oncology because I wanted to be like a holistic cancer doctor. Use like herbs and treat cancer and then like teach them yoga and teach them how to meditate and like help them become like connected with their spirituality before they die and like all this good stuff. And so that's kind of how I became a psychiatrist.