 Hey, y'all. I'd love to talk a little bit about ethics today. There have been several concerns in the community, a lot of questions about whether what we do at Healthy Gamer on stream is therapy, whether what we sort of do at Healthy Gamer as a whole is ethical. And I'd love to sort of talk y'all through the ethics of what we do. The first thing that I kind of want to acknowledge is that most people don't really get an opportunity, even in higher education, to really understand or learn about medical ethics. Medical ethics aren't really a matter of philosophy or even opinion. So just because I believe what we do is ethical doesn't actually make it ethical. If someone else believes what we do is unethical, that doesn't actually make it unethical. The truth is that medical ethics are actually very, very clearly defined. There are standards of practice that are actually codified in state, federal, and international laws. And licensing boards are very specific about what is ethical and what is not ethical. So ethics aren't really a matter of opinion. So what are some of the central principles of medical ethics? The first principle is beneficence. So this is essentially to try to maximize the good that we do. The second principle of medical ethics is non-malphesance. So this is to try to minimize the harm that we do. The third principle of ethics is autonomy. So this is sort of when doctors, we provide information to people, but it is ultimately their choice whether they engage in something or not engage in something. As a patient, you have the right to refuse a treatment, right? So doctors can't make decisions for you. And the fourth major principle of medical ethics is justice. And that's where we try to deliver medical services in a fair way. So if you kind of think about these principles of medical ethics, it kind of like it sort of boils down to a lot of what you see in clinical practice. So if I'm trying to prescribe a medication, for example, the medication is going to have some benefits and it's going to have some side effects. So how do I decide whether it's appropriate to prescribe a medication or not? So what I do is I'll weigh beneficence against non-malphesance. Does the clinical benefit from the medication outweigh the side effects or the harm that it does? If the answer is yes, then it's sort of a good treatment to recommend. I also, as a doctor, allow people to make their own decisions, right? So we're seeing a lot of this right now in the world with people refusing vaccination, where people are allowed to make their own decisions about COVID-19 treatment, receiving it, not receiving it. And that's a central principle of medical ethics. The last principle of justice is essentially that we as doctors don't discriminate. We try to treat everyone the same. And it sort of doesn't matter that you've smoked for 50 years when you get lung cancer. We're going to treat you the same as if you've never smoked a single cigarette. So these are some of the core principles of medical ethics. And what I want to dive into next, which is a really, really big question in our community, is what we do therapy on stream. So a lot of people will sort of look at what we do on stream and sort of assume that this is the practice of therapy. After all, I'm a therapist and I'm talking to someone about their emotions. So is that actually therapy? And I'd like to start by sort of sharing a little bit of a narrative. So when I started Healthy Gamer, the reason that I started Healthy Gamer is I was working with a lot of people who were sort of of the digital generation. And the more gamers that I worked with, the more young people I worked with, I noticed I was having the same conversation over and over. In fact, what I noticed was that what was really missing is not clinical treatment. These were not people who needed prescriptions or even psychotherapy. What they needed first and foremost was education. I found myself having the same conversation over and over again, teaching the same things over and over again. So I started to wonder, could I actually help 10 people or 100 people by having a single conversation online? And so as I started to investigate that question, even before I started streaming at all, the first thing that I looked into is whether it was possible as a psychiatrist to have public conversations with people about their mind and mental health. The answer that I discovered was yes, you can, provided you do it in a very specific way. So people may think that what I do on on stream is therapy, but the truth is it is actually very clearly not therapy. And what do I mean by that? Let's explore that for a second. So the first thing to understand is that the practice of psychotherapy is very tightly regulated. So I can't just I mean, I can because I'm a psychiatrist, but the average person can't just open up an office and say, I'm doing psychotherapy in the same way that someone can't hang up, open an office and say, I'm doing surgery. So there are some things psychotherapy is a very restricted practice. And so as a result, it's very clearly defined. So what constitutes psychotherapy and what doesn't constitute psychotherapy? The other thing to understand is that therapists are regulated in all manner of ways. So, for example, if you go see a therapist, they are not allowed to divulge anything about you, including your name or what's going on with you with anyone else. So when you see a therapist, you are entitled to doctor patient confidentiality. So what we sort of what I discovered is I was looking into whether it's possible for me to have conversations online is that what's actually regulated is not necessarily the practice of therapy. I mean, it is, but that's actually regulated under a broader set of ethical and legal guidelines, which is the clinical practice of medicine. So why is your therapist entitled? Why are you entitled to doctor patient confidentiality with your therapist? It's because they're practicing clinical medicine. Why do we regulate who is allowed to do therapy and who is not allowed to do therapy? It's because we regulate the practice of clinical medicine. We regulate who can do therapy. We regulate who can pull teeth. We regulate who can do surgery. We regulate who can prescribe medication. So all of these regulations are shared, right? So you have doctor patient confidentiality with dentists, with therapists, with psychiatrists, with surgeons, with endocrinologists or obstetricians or gynecologists. So the ethical guidelines and the regulations of what therapy is and what constitutes therapy falls under the broader practice of clinical medicine. And this is another really important point because my professional training is as an M.D. So the laws and ethics that I'm held to as a medical doctor sort of involve the practice of clinical medicine. So what actually constitutes the practice of medicine? So the American Psychiatric Association defines psychiatry as the branch of medicine that's focused on the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental and emotional, mental, emotional and behavioral disorders. So clinical medicine is essentially it's very specific, but clinical medicine is the practice of medicine and the practice of medicine is actually very clearly defined. There's a clear line between what is medicine and what is not medicine. So, for example, prescribing medications or doing surgery fall under the practice of medicine. Psychotherapy falls under the practice of medicine. And while the practices of medicine may vary a little bit from state to state, each state has its own guidelines, each country has its own guidelines. There are three incredibly common and conserved things no matter where you look at the practice of medicine. Those three things are, first of all, the formation of a doctor-patient relationship. The second is diagnosis and the third is treatment. So wherever you go, medicine constitutes these three things. So let's start with the first one, the commencement of a doctor-patient relationship. So I know this sounds kind of weird and it may sound kind of simple, but this is actually very, very clearly defined. So the AMA actually clearly defines what constitutes entering into a doctor-patient relationship. And the key thing here is that there's a voluntary agreement by both parties that we are entering into a doctor-patient relationship. This may sound a little bit weird, but just think about it kind of logically. So you can't walk up to me or any other doctor and say, hey, you're my doctor now. Similarly, I as a doctor cannot walk up to a random person on the street and say, hey, I'm your doctor now. The patient has to agree to be a patient and the doctor has to agree to be their doctor. The American Medical Association also clearly defines the exceptions to this rule. So one exception, for example, is emergency care or the case of a surrogate. So if someone is in a car accident and they have a skull fracture or not conscious, they do not have to agree to be a patient. A doctor can actually start administering medical care in the case of an emergency. Surrogates are other examples. So if you have something like a six-month-old child, the child can't enter into a doctor-patient relationship. If you have someone who's 85 years old and has dementia, they may not be able to enter into a doctor-patient relationship. So a surrogate can enter into the relationship for you. The other major exception to entry into a doctor-patient relationship is a limited doctor-patient relationship in the case of like a consultation or temporary medical care. So I'll give you all just a simple example of this. So let's say I go on vacation. So I have my patients that I'm responsible for. I have a doctor who's covering for me, but that doctor is only responsible for those patients while I am on vacation. And once I come back, that person's limited relationship with patients ends. So all of my patients can't sort of automatically switch over to the new doctor without that doctor's consent. So there are other cases where there are limited doctor-patient relationships. Those tend to be informal consultations. So sometimes, for example, if you've got cancer, you may seek a second opinion from a different doctor. And you still have your primary doctor, but you're allowed to engage in a limited doctor-patient relationship with a separate doctor as part of a consultation. The key thing here is that a doctor-patient relationship is very clearly defined. It's a voluntary commitment by both parties. The other key thing is that the exceptions to the doctor-patient relationship are also clearly defined. There are two major exceptions, which we just talked about, and those are the only ones. Talking to a psychiatrist online is not an exception to the voluntary entry of a doctor-patient relationship. The other things, in addition to the voluntary consensual entry into a doctor-patient relationship, are diagnosis and treatment. These are the other two pillars of the practice of medicine. So what constitutes diagnosis and what constitutes treatment? This is where standard of care enters the picture. So we all recognize that diagnosis and treatment are not the same for any given illness. So diagnosis and treatment of cancer may be different from diagnosis and treatment of, let's say, a physical therapy, like a muscle strain, which may be different from, let's say, diagnosing depression. So there are individual standards of care depending on what kind of medicine you're practicing. And the reason that we use standard of care is to sort of regulate and help all doctors and patients understand what is the responsibility of a doctor. In order to be saying, I am practicing medicine, what are the things that I'm required to do? When a patient comes to a doctor and wants to receive medical care, what is the standard of care that they should provide? So understanding this is also really useful if we kind of like use an analogy. So let's say I go and order a pizza. What constitutes a pizza? Is it just someone saying, hey, this is a pizza? No. So we think of a pizza as like a couple of core things, right? So there's some kind of like bread or pizza dough, right? There's some kind of sauce and there's some kind of cheese. So the way that we define pizza is based on these three requirements, right? It's got to have bread. It's got to have sauce. It's got to have cheese. Now, I recognize that there may be some different definitions of pizza. I'm just sort of using that as an analogy. And if we look at the practice of clinical medicine across state lines, across different countries, it sort of constitutes three things. The entry of a doctor-patient relationship, diagnosis, and treatment. So then the question becomes, what constitutes diagnosis? What's the standard of care of diagnosis? If I want to diagnose someone, does that just mean like going up to a mental health professional and they just say, I think you have depression, therefore you have depression? Actually, not at all. So there are very, very strict standards of diagnosis. So I'll give you guys sort of a quick overview of what I do in my clinical practice and basically what other therapists should be doing as well, because it's the standard of care. So the diagnostic process involves a lot of different stuff. So it involves taking a history of present illness, which includes like a symptom assessment. So what are the things that you're experiencing? It includes things like duration, frequency, severity of symptoms. So how long have you been experiencing this? How often does it happen? How bad is it? What are the character of the symptoms you experience? In addition to the HPI, we also assess medical history. So do you have any other medical conditions? Have you had any other psychiatric conditions? Have you ever been hospitalized? Have you ever had surgery before? So there are lots of different things that you collect for the medical history. The next thing that we sort of collect is we'll collect things like substance use history. So do you use substances? We'll ask questions about your social history. So where do you live? What do you do? Are you sexually active? What are your relationships like? Is there any chance you have an STI? And yes, I do ask each and every one of my patients, whether they're 13 years old or 85 years old, about their sexual history, because it's standard of care for physicians. Other things include family history. So has anyone in your family ever been hospitalized? Does anyone in your family have medical conditions? And you all may sort of recognize this kind of stuff because if you go to a doctor's office, they're going to give you a bunch of forms that you fill out. And we don't ask any of those questions on stream, right? So people may volunteer some information kind of from a narrative perspective about what their upbringing was like. But we do not do diagnostic assessments on stream. Other parts of the diagnostic assessment include laboratory testing and imaging. Sometimes I'll order MRIs of the brain. Sometimes I'll order lab tests. So the process of diagnosis is actually very, very specific. It's not something that it's not just like you ask a couple of questions and then you sort of suddenly have a diagnosis. The other thing to consider about the diagnostic process, which is standard of care, is also a differential diagnosis. So it is actually not enough for me to ask all of those questions. As a doctor, the practice of medicine constitutes developing a differential diagnosis. So if someone comes in with symptoms of depression, I also have to assess them for bipolar disorder. I also have to assess them for schizoaffective disorder. I also have to assess them for a substance induced mood disorder, which in the practice of medicine, we absolutely do. So what I'm going to do for just to show you all is take a quick look at the diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder. So as we can see, the interview should establish the presence of depressive symptoms, depressed mood most of the day, loss of interest or pleasure in most or all activities, insomnia, hypersomnia, significant weight loss or weight gain, psychomotor retardation or agitation, fatigue or low energy, decreased ability to concentrate, think or make decisions, thoughts of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, recurrent thoughts of death or suicidal ideation or a suicide attempt, depressed mood that occurs most of the day, more days than not, and is persistent and lasts for at least two weeks. We also have to go on, so it just keeps going, right? So we have to determine the chronology of the current depressive symptoms, any prior history of depressive episodes, determine the impact of the depressive episode, elicit alleviating and aggravating factors, and address comorbidities, include questions about a past history of mania or hypomania. So this is actually the standard that we're talking about. And like, I don't know how else to say this, but we don't do that on stream because that's what constitutes the practice of medicine. Remember, once again, if we're doing therapy on stream, then we have to adhere to the standards of therapy. How do we define therapy? It's part of the practice of medicine. What is the practice of medicine? These are the standards of care in terms of diagnosing someone with major depressive disorder. And the simple fact is that we don't do any of that, right? I don't do thorough symptomatic assessments. I don't assess frequency, severity, duration. Some of these things may come up in the course of stream, but that is not actually constituting a diagnosis. The next thing that I want to point out is for people who think, okay, we are, do I diagnose things on stream? I don't. And so let me actually show you. So someone talking about their depression does not actually constitute diagnosis. Here are what actual diagnoses are. So this is from the ICD-11. So this is the International Classification of Disease. So this is an international consensus about what constitutes diagnosis. So when I'm seeing a patient in my office, I will actually diagnose them with one of these things recurrent depressive disorder, current episode mild or current episode moderate without psychotic symptoms, with psychotic symptoms, severe with psychotic symptoms, in partial remission, in full remission. These are actual diagnoses. We do not tell people on stream that they have these. We do not ask diagnostic questions to the extent of what is necessary for major depressive disorder. So depression is not a diagnosis. Anxiety is not a diagnosis. Anxiety is an emotion. The actual diagnoses are things like generalized anxiety disorder, socialized anxiety disorder, anxiety disorder induced by a substance, unspecified anxiety disorder. Those are actually diagnoses, and we do not assign those labels to anyone on stream. What about treatment? So treatment is also something where it involves a standard of care. So the standard of care for psychotherapy, because a lot of people are wondering whether I do something, what I do on stream is psychotherapy or not. Let's talk about what constitutes the standard of care of psychotherapy. So when a therapist is working with a patient, what do we expect from them? What can patients expect? And what are patients, sorry, what are therapists responsible for delivering? So a good example of the foundation of psychotherapeutic treatment is something called a treatment plan. So this is a treatment plan that I just kind of wrote up. It's a fake treatment plan. These are the kinds of treatment plans that I develop for my patients. So, you know, they'll have the name, date of birth, things like that, but then it'll have the first diagnosis. And so this is actually what I do in clinical practice. Treatment plans include things like psychopharmacology. Are they taking medicine? Are we doing some kind of evidence based psychotherapy? What are the goals of the psychotherapy? What other kinds of things are we doing for health and wellness? So, for example, sometimes as part of treatment plans, I'll include mindfulness practice. What's the second diagnosis? What's the state of the second diagnosis? What are we doing for it? OK, this person had an alcohol problem, but I'm currently not prescribing anything. By the way, they benefited from naltrexone in the past. Psychotherapy can also there can also be psychotherapy for the second diagnosis. And part of the treatment plan is to go to alcoholics anonymous. The third thing, the third diagnosis is going to be PTSD for this person. So there's medications I'm prescribing, but they're also seeing a different therapist for doing a different evidence based treatment modality. There's also different kinds of peer support and there's a medical diagnosis thrown in. So this is an example of what an actual treatment plan is like. When you perform therapy with a patient, this is what therapy actually looks like. I'll show you just another sort of generic example of what a treatment plan. This is just something I found on the Internet. But once again, this diagnostic system is kind of a little bit outdated. So this is from DSM four. So we've kind of updated this. But the key thing here is once again, there are clear there's a principle diagnosis. There's a diagnosis that's assigned. There's a duration of diagnosis. There are functional deficits that are mentioned. What are the issue? What's issue number one? What's goal number one? What's objective number one? What's task number one? What's task number two? What's area number two? What's issue number two? What's goal number two? This is what constitutes an actual treatment plan. So when you perform therapy on someone, you're doing all of this stuff, right? So this kind of comes down to like, do we do therapy on stream? And the answer is absolutely not. And the reason we're able to say that is because therapy is actually very, very tightly regulated, right? It's not a matter of opinion. It's just because Dr. K believes we're not doing therapy doesn't mean that we're not doing therapy. When we set out, we designed stream with these considerations in mind. So when I thought about, OK, what am I allowed to do on stream? What is ethically and legally appropriate to do on stream? The main conclusion is I'm not allowed to practice medicine on stream, even then there may be some theoretical situations in which that's possible. But generally speaking, that's the main dividing line. So everything we do on stream is not the practice of clinical medicine. In order to sort of figure out what is OK on stream, we can define what the practice of clinical medicine is or understand the definition. So that's not something we define. That's something that we exhaustively looked up by looking through hundreds of pages of medical ethics documents, state laws, federal laws, regulations, licensing board things, ethics, opinions on ethics from the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association. And what we sort of decided to do on stream is actually clearly outside of those things. The other simple gut check that I have for you all is when you go to a doctor's office, how similar is it to what happens on stream? And the short answer is like not at all, right? Because doctors are practicing clinical medicine. And what we're doing on stream is having conversations about mental health. We do not enter into a doctor patient relationship. We do not diagnose people with medical illnesses and we do not treat them for medical illnesses. Psychotherapy is governed and regulated and the ethical standards around psychotherapists are under the broader umbrella of clinical practice. Right. So you are not allowed to engage in a romantic relationship with your doctor. You are not allowed to engage in a romantic relationship with your psychotherapist. You are not allowed to, as a therapist, violate your patient's privacy. The legal protections that we have constitute protections from a doctor patient relationship. And we don't enter into that. We don't diagnose people and we don't treat people. So then the next question very naturally is why do people think that what we do on stream is therapy? Right. So where does this idea come from? What do we actually do on stream? And are there any overlaps with therapy? So it's a really good question because I don't think most people, like we sort of mentioned, most people haven't studied medical ethics. They don't really understand the definition of the practice of medicine. They're not trained in diagnosis. They're not trained in developing treatment plans or doing psychotherapy. So where do they get this idea that what we do on stream is therapy? So it's a really good question. So what we do on stream is we have conversations with people that are about their mental health. So I'm a very good listener, for example. I'm very good at asking questions. I'm very knowledgeable about things. So I'll build some amount of an alliance with the person that I'm talking to. I'll be a very active listener and I'll ask very insightful questions. So sometimes people think that that constitutes therapy, whereas no, that doesn't constitute therapy. So I'll just think about this for a second. There are other professions outside of therapists that do these things. So who builds an alliance very quickly with the person that they're talking to? Who makes very empathic statements and tries to help people open up? FBI hostage negotiators, right? Even customer service representatives. If you've been on a customer service or talked to a customer service representative recently, you may have noticed that they do some of the skills that are generally speaking what we think of from therapy, right? They'll ask, they'll make like very empathic statements. Oh, I'm so sorry that you had to go through that. So this is like really important to understand. But just because I'm a very good listener and just because I'm very good at like asking questions and making observations and reading body language, that is not what actually constitutes therapy. In fact, these are skills that are used by all kinds of people. So executives, for example, will get like interpersonal training and training in relationships and communication. So these are skills like communication skills between people are things that I absolutely do on stream, but I don't do anything medical on stream. And oftentimes because people don't recognize or understand what constitutes the practice of clinical medicine, which isn't really a problem because you're not going to learn that unless you go to medical school or you engage in some other kind of clinical education. You know, it can look like what you imagine therapy is because what do you imagine therapy is? It's like what you see based on media and TV shows and stuff like that, whereas the truth is that the practice of clinical medicine is completely different. So there may be like, even though I've sort of made a very strong case and like I said, we sort of set stream up to be outside the bounds of the practice of clinical medicine and therapy. There's still maybe some kind of confusion there. So like, what if you kind of make the argument, for example, that even though I'm a medical doctor and I'm not entering into a doctor patient relationship, I'm not diagnosing anyone with anything and I'm not providing treatment plans, right? So I'm not doing psychotherapy. I'm not providing medications or anything like that. I'm still a medical professional who is like listening empathically, which sometimes is done in therapy. So therapists are absolutely empathic listeners. So if I'm a medical doctor, am I allowed to empathically listen to someone and ask someone insightful questions? Or is that something that I'm no longer allowed to do except with my patients? And that's kind of like absurd because the answer is clearly I'm allowed to do that with people without entering into a doctor patient relationship. So for example, I do that with my kids. I do that with my wife. I do that with my friends. When human beings talk to me, I try to be an empathic active listener. When human beings talk to me, I try to ask insightful questions to help them out. If a friend of mine is going through a breakup, I'm going to sort of listen to them very carefully. I'm going to sort of maybe even get emotional with them. We'll sort of have a good cry together. And then I may sort of ask some questions or volunteer some information or teach them how to meditate. Just because something happens within a therapeutic relationship does not mean that it is therapy when it happens outside of a therapeutic relationship. So just to kind of reiterate that, like, if you really think about it, like, if that were true, if I weren't allowed to have emotional conversations with other people, like, I couldn't interact with other human beings in an empathic way. And this is what's sort of brilliant about the way that clinical medicine is defined, because it's defined about what's the goal, right? Is it diagnosis or treatment? If yes, then it's clinical medicine. If no, then it's not clinical medicine. So there are other things besides communication skills which can be, you know, taught as part of clinical medicine or used as part of clinical medicine, but aren't technically clinical medicine. So I'll give you all a couple of examples. So as a physical therapist, if you're a good physical therapist, you'll teach your patients to stretch. Does that mean that stretching is a part of physical therapy? Sort of. But is it exclusive to physical therapy? No. So if you go to a personal trainer who's a non-clinical person, they're allowed to teach people how to stretch as well. Then the next question kind of becomes, is a physical therapist allowed to teach people who are not their patients how to stretch? Absolutely. Right. So if I'm a physical therapist and on weekends I like have a CrossFit group, and at the very beginning of the CrossFit group, I teach people how to stretch, even though it's a part of my clinical practice that I engage in, it's not exclusively a clinical activity. So I'm allowed to do it with random people if I want to. Another good example of this is meditation. So meditation is something that's been shown to have a clinical benefit. So as a doctor, I will teach meditation to my patients. Does that mean that if I teach meditation to someone outside of my doctor-patient relationship that I am their doctor or practicing medicine? Absolutely not. One of my mentors is a Zen priest, and they teach their patients how to meditate. And on the weekends, they go to the Zen temple and they teach students how to meditate. That does not mean just because something can exist within therapy, does not mean that doing that thing outside of therapy, like listening well, being a decent human being, and asking good questions, makes it the practice of therapy. The last thing that I'll say is that this is also very clearly defined. So in the practice of clinical medicine, there are some things that are exclusively clinical medicine, and those are very tightly regulated. And I am not actually allowed to do those things outside of a doctor-patient relationship. So the simple example is like prescribed controlled medication. So prescribing medication is exclusive to the practice of clinical medicine. So I can't prescribe Adderall or opiates to my wife. That is actually considered unethical. I cannot do particular things. I cannot treat, diagnose or treat my wife. I cannot diagnose or treat my friend. In fact, that is a very, very important ethical boundary, which we respect at HG. Once we have a relationship with someone that is a non-clinical relationship, we don't cross that line. So this is really, really important to understand because there are some things that therapists may do, but those are not exclusively the practice of medicine. And even as a medical provider, I'm allowed to do those things with like ordinary people without it being the practice of medicine. So just like the physical therapist who can teach someone to stretch just because it's a part of their clinical practice doesn't make it exclusively clinical practice. And there are clear lines about what's exclusively the practice of clinical medicine, and we don't do those things with anyone on stream. So the next thing that I want to talk a little bit about is the actual stream process. So how does someone come on stream? What are the protections that we use? What are the standards that we hold to? And so this is where there's another really important part that I want to talk about, which is kind of an ethical standard that we hold ourselves to, which is informed consent. So before people come on stream, they meet with a producer, and the producer sort of lays out with them what stream is, what's allowed, what's not allowed. We make it very clear to them that this is not the practice of medicine, that Dr. K is not your doctor, and we make sure that they agree to that. So we go through an informed consent process. So if there's any confusion there or they're looking for some kind of medical advice, that's where things end. So we inform them, and then we go through the consent process. And this is where the ethical principle of autonomy comes up. So we at HG believe that a human being, an adult who wants to come onto the internet and voluntarily talk to someone about their mental health should be able to. We believe that human beings should have the autonomy to make their own decisions. So out of respect of that autonomy, we want to make things very crystal clear. So we have conversations with them. We also give them the opportunities to set boundaries on anything that they don't want to talk about. So this is not something where once they come on stream, they're also allowed to set boundaries in the middle of stream if they want to. But they're allowed to say, hey, I don't want to talk about this on stream. I don't want to mention this on stream. I don't want to mention this on stream. So what we essentially do is go through a rigorous informed consent process where we explain very clearly this is not a doctor patient relationship and we make sure that they're on the same page. If there's any confusion there, we either resolve that confusion or we sort of stop, right? Because we are not going to practice clinical medicine on stream. So here at HG, we actually hold ourselves to a very high ethical standard, despite the fact that we are not engaging in clinical activity. So on stream, I don't practice therapy because it's very clearly defined. So remember that therapy is part of the subset of the practice of clinical medicine, which is why you get doctor patient privileges, their ethical guidelines around your therapist, etc. And remember that the practice of clinical medicine is clearly defined as having three components. The bread is entry into the doctor patient relationship. That's how it starts. The sauce is diagnosis and the cheese is treatment. And since we do none of those things, we're not practicing clinical medicine and we're not doing psychotherapy with people on stream. At the same time, we hold ourselves to a couple of really high standards. So the first example that I'll give you all, and this is in many dimensions of our company and our work, but the first is research. So, for example, for all of our research studies, we submit them to something called an independent review board or an IRB. So there's a third party organization which is not affiliated with us at all. And when we want to do research, we'll take our research study and we'll pass it to the IRB and we'll say, hey, we would like to do this research on human subjects. Will you please evaluate it and tell us if it is in the line in alignment with ethical principles? And the IRB is essentially the they were developed kind of after people did predatory research on on human subjects. And so we've actually had five independent reviews of our research in a six that's ongoing for another study that we're doing that have all sort of met an independently reviewed ethical criteria. So we got the green light from an institutional review board, which is a third party kind of ethical organization that approves the research that we do. So the other thing that we hold ourselves to a high standard to is being responsive to feedback. So here at HG, we're sort of in new territory, right? Mental health is rapidly evolving. The needs of this generation in terms of taking care of their mental health are rapidly evolving. The solutions that we need to use are rapidly evolving. A hundred years ago, no one was meditating for the sake of their mental health. But now we have these new tools. We have these new challenges like social media and online toxicity. And so as we sort of adapt to these new circumstances, we don't have all the answers at HG because no one has all the answers. These problems are new. So a big thing that we sort of very, very carefully focus on is taking feedback. And this is something that we actually pride ourselves in. HG has gotten to where we are today because of the feedback from our community. So I'll give you all just one simple example of this. In the past, I had talked a fair amount about Ayurveda. Generally speaking, when I talk about Ayurveda, I talk about it more from a personality analysis standpoint. And as part of the support for Ayurveda, I cited a couple of scientific papers. Seven months ago, someone in our community made a post sort of questioning the veracity of the research that we were citing. And it turns out that they made really, really good arguments. So we talked about it on stream, addressed their criticism. Turns out that a lot of their criticisms were actually really good. And for the last seven months, we haven't said a word about Ayurveda. Internally, we're going through the process of reviewing a whole body of Ayurvedic research. My point here is that sometimes at HG, we'll say particular things that we believe are correct and we'll even do some research and we'll cite papers and stuff like that. But no scientific paper is perfect. And as members from our community will point out those kinds of things, we will absolutely adjust our behavior. So one of the things that we really value and hold ourselves to a very high standard about is actually accepting feedback from our community, which is really, really helpful and is actually really responsible for the impact that we've been able to achieve. The last thing that I want to mention is that the work that we do at HG is not in a vacuum. So like I sort of mentioned before, we even showed up on stream. We did a ton of research about what actually constitutes therapy, what actually constitutes the practice of medicine. And based on our research, that is how we decide what to do. As a simple example, the World Health Organization in 2020 released a report which sort of emphasized that mental health is in crisis. And one of the key interventions that they said is they said people need to be doing more peer support, that clinicians are sort of insufficient and we can't train them fast enough to meet the demands of what mental health needs are. So peer support is nonclinical intervention that supports mental health. And so it's because of calls like that that we've developed community support programs. It's because of calls like that that we've even developed our coaching program. So here at HG, what we're doing is not just like what we think is a good idea, but we regularly and consistently since before we even showed up on stream for the first time, have been consulting with industry professionals, psychiatrists, professional organizations, talking to people, for example, like on the Council of Addictions, talking to people at the World Health Organization. We even recently had a collaboration with the United Nations. So what we do at HG, and this is a standard that we hold ourselves to, we recognize that we don't have all the answers. We recognize that like this is a new problem and that the best way to sort of tackle this problem in sort of a responsible way, in an ethical way, is to continually engage in dialogue with other professional organizations. So that's what we've done from the get-go. The next thing that I want to talk a little bit about is something that's a little bit more negative, and that's hate farming. So there's been an increasing and disturbing trend on the Internet recently of people sort of being increasingly critical and essentially farming hate. And I want to talk a little bit about what we've learned sort of in terms of our platform and sort of the reach that we have and how we try to behave in an ethical manner. So as a content creator, you know, I feel like I have a duty to use my platform for good. The unfortunate thing is that there are some people out there who will use platforms essentially for negative reasons. So they'll hate farm or criticize or things like that. And like I've said, we're actually completely open to criticism, assuming that it's sort of fair and based in fact and is well-cited. So we're completely open to criticism and quite responsive to criticism like that. Unfortunately, what we're seeing on the Internet is an increasing amount of like toxicity, right? Like we can all feel that the Internet is becoming a more toxic place. And so what I'd like to do today is talk a little bit about how I've come to understand hate farming and sort of what goes into it. So the first thing to understand is that hate farmers usually are operating on an emotional level. And the main emotion that they sort of target is a vague sense of righteousness. So when you watch a video by a hate farmer, what you'll often find is that it's very emotional in nature, right? So it's going to have very powerful imagery. It may have sort of a very strong title, may have sort of a very powerful thumbnail. And as they sort of constrain, as they start to weave their narrative, like what you're going to be feeling is some sense of outrage or irateness or things like that. And the more that hate farmers kind of engage your emotions, right, because that's what it's about. It's about making you angry. It's about making you grab your pitchfork. Let's all grab our pitchforks and down with the bad guys. That's sort of the emotions that they engage. What they're sort of doing by doing that is sort of ignoring any kind of like, you know, real criticism. So oftentimes there are different kinds of critical videos on the Internet. Some are very well sourced, well cited, kind of offer balanced perspectives. And hate farmers usually won't have that, right? So they'll usually have some kind of narrative where they sort of will find a bunch of information on the Internet. And this is where like it's challenging as a content creator because, you know, we probably stream for well over a thousand hours. And if you go through all of the content that we've done, you can stitch together basically whatever kind of narrative you want to. So a really good example of this, if you all haven't seen it, is Dr. K interviews Dr. K, which is when someone takes clips of me and like stitches them together as if I'm having a conversation. So you can sort of clip things into context to weave whatever kind of narrative you want to. So the first thing to understand about hate farmers is that they work primarily on an emotional level and will really sort of encourage you to get your pitchforks out. They may make some kind of narrative argument, which sounds very logical at the time. But this is where oftentimes what hate farmers do is will come up with a priori arguments. And what does that mean? That means that the judgment actually precedes the collection of evidence. So I'll go into a little bit more detail there. So oftentimes if you look at people who are critical and people who are hate farmers, they sort of assume guilt at the very beginning, right? So they haven't really done an objective investigation. Something has happened and they've sort of decided that you're guilty. And then something really tricky happens is that once they've decided you're guilt, they'll start collecting information. The problem is that on the Internet, search and the way that you collect information is going to probably reinforce your biases. So I'll give you a simple example of this. If I believe that the earth is flat and I, let's say, do a Google search for evidence that the earth is not round, what I'm going to find is a bunch of evidence that actually already supports my conclusion. So you'll even see this with particular hate farmers. Well, they'll do things like they'll tweet out or they'll make public calls stating a particular direction. So they'll say, like, I'm going to make a video about X, Y or Z and how, let's say, this person is taking advantage of people. And so what kind of response do you think that person is going to get when I put a call out on Twitter or when I do a Google search in a particular direction? Is COVID a hoax? What kind of response do you think I'm going to get if I tweet out about saying, hey, I'm doing a video about, you know, unreported side effects and bad consequences of getting COVID-19? What kind of information do you think that person is going to receive? So what hate farmers do is they come up with a conclusion and then they start collecting evidence. Right. And I'm not so sure that they're doing this like insidiously and on purpose. Is it harmful? Absolutely. But I think that they sort of stumble upon some idea and then it actually shapes the questions that they ask. And once you shape the questions that you ask, you're going to shape the responses that you get. And this is precisely why if we look at a scientific standard of how to collect information, making Twitter posts is like not a good way to collect information. So as if you submit a study to the IRB that has a loaded question in it, the IRB, the Institutional Review Board will say this is a bad question. You cannot ask this question because it is it is biased by its nature. So this is where in scientific research, like we understand this stuff really well. When we formulate questions, when you ask a research question, it has to be approved by someone who sort of makes sure that it isn't biased. But when it comes to hate farmers, like they don't go to independent review boards to see if their question is biased in some way. And so then what happens is you create a selection bias for information. Right. So if I make a post, let's say I tweet something out and I tweet out that all men are assholes. I'm making a video about it. Message me if you have any information about this. I'm going to get a volume of response that agrees with what I say. The second thing is you could do the opposite. You could say all women are assholes and I'll get the same thing. Right. So I'll get a bunch of people who hate women who kind of respond to me. And this is the tricky thing is that oftentimes what hate farmers will do is that based on that response, they'll filter it. Right. So this is where a cognitive bias kind of steps in, where even if you call for a particular kind of information, you're going to get the majority of what you're looking for anyway, because it's the Internet and there's like an infinite amount of opinions. You'll also sort of occasionally find people like experts. And so this is really important to understand. A collection like stringing together a group of expert opinions does not actually constitute evidence. So let's remember that tobacco industries were able to find dozens of physicians who under oath swore that cigarettes did not cause lung cancer. Let's remember that there are anti-COVID information dissemination platforms out there that find medical doctors who say that vaccination is a mistake. Stringing together a couple of experts, which is what hate farmers will do. Right. So they'll give you the appearance of evidence. And the way that they'll do that is find a couple of credentialed people who agree with them. But they're not going to include people in the video who disagree with them. Right. That's just not part of the narrative that they weave. And so what ends up happening is that the tools that hate farmers use is they'll sort of start with kind of some click baity stuff. Right. And then they'll engage your emotions. And then they'll, based on their selection bias, will collect a bunch of information and then they'll string that information together. And it sort of makes sense. Right. Because if I make a if I ask a video, if I make a tweet about, oh, I'm trying to figure out why the moon landing was a hoax, and I'll get 50 people to respond to me, and then when I make a video about it, I'll take the 10 strongest people and I'll stitch them together. And now what I've done over a one hour YouTube video is I've made a very strong case for a particular thing. But this is why I remind you that especially when it comes to some of the criticism that we've faced, it's not a matter of opinion. It's a matter of law. Right. These things are very clearly designated and we are in compliance with these kinds of things. So when it comes to hate farming, be a little bit careful about this stuff. Right. Because this is happening more and more on the Internet. And I oddly enough, I don't even necessarily blame these people because I don't know that the people who make hateful videos have done any kind of training with like how to formulate a good, nonbiased research question. That's something that I learned through four years of getting a master's in public health in some amount of like as an M.D. Generally speaking, formulating research questions is actually like a very technical and difficult thing to do. So I think what's happening is people will sort of come to an a priori conclusion. They already decide that something is bad. And then they'll sort of ask questions in a way that reinforces their bias. This is why the Internet is turning into echo chambers. And this is what's leading to toxicity. The last thing that I want to talk a little bit about is that unfortunately recently we've been the recipient of some hate farming. This is kind of hit kind of close to home. And one of the things that really bothers me about this, these hate farmers is is not necessarily the personal attacks, but their decision to include wreckful in these videos. And what actually really kind of pisses me off, to be honest, is not even that they included wreckful, but the picture that they paint of him. What really bothers me is that in order to attack me, what they've managed to do is they spin this narrative about wreckful as like someone who is like easily manipulated and like couldn't kind of think for himself and stuff like that. And that's actually what bothers me the most is that in order to attack me, they're actually like portraying a picture of Byron that is completely inaccurate. If you knew Byron, which I did, and he was a very close friend of mine, like the dude was brilliant, right? Like he was incredibly independent. He was fierce with his views. He was fierce with like, you know, advocating for himself. He was strong. He was a force to be reckoned with, and he was an absolute hero of the Internet. And so what really bothers me the most is like the way that they're portraying him is like some kind of like, you know, weak victim. Like Byron was an absolute beast, right? Wreckful Gladiator was an absolute beast. On stream, he brought so many people together. How was he able to do that? It's because he was so damn smart and he was so critical with his thinking and he was so open about his struggles, right? He inspired so many people to get mental health treatment. And what sort of bothers me the most is that in all of this discussion of Byron, no one is sort of talking about what Byron did for us, right? Because the truth is he did a ton for us. And I don't just mean me. I don't mean HG. What I mean is like the Internet, the Twitch community, the gaming community. And so this is where I want to talk a little bit about sort of ending things almost on a personal note, because like the way that our relationship has been misconstrued is very like hurtful. And the truth of the matter is that Byron and I never entered into a doctor-patient relationship, right? We were friends. We were professional. We were professional colleagues. We were both streamers. That's the nature of our relationship. And one of the things that I've really come to appreciate is that as a professional streamer, I have a responsibility as a content creator. And what we try to do at HG is use our platform for good. And the term AOE healing actually came from Byron. He was the first person who said, it sounds like what y'all are doing is AOE healing. And that's what we're really about, because the World Health Organization, the U.S. Surgeon General, the United Nations, and all y'all out there already know that mental health is in crisis. That clinical medicine cannot keep up with the rate of like what we're dealing with. That some of the challenges that we face in mental health are even not clinical in nature. Finding purpose in life, developing confidence, learning how to form healthy relationships, learning how to meditate. There is a lot more to mental health than mental illness. And that is what we want to use our platform for. That is why we're incredibly grateful to Byron for the contributions that he made and like the way that he helped us do that. We're also incredibly grateful to our community for supporting us in this mission. And the reason that I did this, because I am a medical doctor and I walked away from the majority of clinical practice, is because what I saw at home in my office was the same problem over and over and over again and more requests than I could possibly deal with. Hundreds of thousands or thousands of people reaching out to me asking me for help. And there's no way that I can get to them. So as a content creator, and this is for all the other content creators out there, I encourage y'all to think very carefully about how can we use this platform? Because there is so much toxicity on the Internet. There is so much hate farming going on. People are forming echo chambers. Misogyny and misandry are at all times high. People hate men on a level that they never have before. People hate women on a level that they never have before. The amount of hatred on the Internet is reaching epidemic proportions. Social media is wreaking havoc on our mental health. We have a generation of people who can't leave their house because of gaming and watching YouTube and all this kind of stuff. And so at the end of the day, as content creators, we have a responsibility to use the tools of the Internet to make the world a better place. And that's what we're here to do at HG. The thing is, we cannot do it alone. And this is exactly why we need your help, your participation, your feedback to help us in this mission, because there's no way that we can fix this problem on our own. We're going to do our level best to try. We're going to do it in as ethical and responsible of a manner as we can possibly do it. We've adhered to state guidelines, federal guidelines, standards of practice from the American Psychiatric Association, the American Medical Association. And we're going to continue to do the work that we need to do. And I'm asking all of you all for help in terms of doing this, right? So whether it's meditating for yourself or being compassionate towards someone else, trying to understand someone else's problems, not jumping to judgment, not giving into toxicity, the only way we can fix mental health and the problems that the world faces is together. So it comes down to AOE healing. And thank you very much for watching the video and participating in what we're doing.