 Okay, so Mitch can you Any any first of all any questions concerns about today like any thoughts Die right in this concerns. No, man. I'm good. I'm good. Yeah, you know like I've I Got no concerns, man. Okay, so can you can first of all thanks for coming on again? Yeah, I was really excited to actually talk to you again I think the last time we spoke really helped me in a lot of ways actually It made me see things differently, and I feel like it helped other people see a side of me I don't quite normally show that makes sense. Yeah, so can you help me understand what you what you saw differently? after our last session Yeah, I definitely Took into consideration what you said about the thinking black and white so I've been trying to work on that And not like look at as things as just like set in stone like I used to look at them So I'm trying to have more of an open mind with that good, and I've definitely been taking Like steps sometimes. I'm you know just feeling overwhelmed or whatever. I'm just like alright I'm just gonna think in the moment. Just like chill whatever and I've been thinking like a lot About different things I guess it's hard to explain it's like my my like true Calling for like who I want to be is kind of like surfacing if that makes sense Yeah, that sounds awesome. Can you tell us about that? Yeah, I definitely think like I like I'm like really in like health stuff right and I've been thinking maybe I could like Transition into like doing that someone and maybe monetizing it somehow I don't know how but like sure I don't just like doing something different and like having other hobbies that aren't just like you know waking up and you know Streaming or whatever I've done for the last like 10 years You know have living a little differently doing some new things Maybe being some new normal people that aren't involved in twitch and like finding out maybe find some successful healthy Relationships outside of this industry if that makes sense yeah So it sounds like you're considering things that you kind of hadn't considered as seriously before Yes, definitely, and I've always kind of considered these things I just never really was like acting on them and now I think that I will do that because yes Yeah, and and so Mitch. What do you think? So you felt? Do you feel happy? Um that's That's a that's a hard question to answer Happy in which I mean I don't feel happy like I would do when I was 18 I gave no fucks about anything. You know I don't feel that way anymore, but I definitely feel as though I Want to keep going to see where I can get in this game that we call life right like if I get myself to a place of Peace of mind or whatever it is that people are searching for yeah Yeah, so I I think the answer is no which I think is a good answer and it's very appropriate Yeah, yeah, I wouldn't say that. I'm blissfully happy now. Yeah, and and so you know It's interesting. I I don't really have a good recollection of a lot of what we talked about There were a couple of things that really kind of stuck in my mind Help me understand You know what do you think? so you've been so twitch and the internet have sort of described you as like super super depressed and and kind of feeling It's it's super hard to explain. I guess how the internet views me and how like reality is you know what I mean? Let's talk about that Okay, sure where would you like to begin with that? So so how do you think you're viewed by the internet? I Think the internet views me off of just like past experiences I've had and like past things have happened because I've been very open with my community and the whole internet My entire career right like I've shared every relationship. I've had every girlfriend all that's in public You know what I mean? So there's like there's been this like fine line of like weird Atmosphere about my relationships right because when everything's public it's very hard to have like normal lives Yeah, yeah, so I feel like people view me almost like always for my worst moments And it's like people don't it's like strange like it feels like as a public person You know if you ever have like a bad moment that's gonna be remembered ten times more than any good moment that you have You know yeah, so I truly think that People have this bad taste in their mouth from when I like I've been through some shit And I lost my mind or whatever like years ago, and I think people don't let that shit go You know and it's kind of going on to that and it makes me Also like not be able to let it go as easy as I could because it's reminded a lot you know sure sure But yeah, I said the internet definitely views me as like depressed or like maybe manic. You know definitely very messy Not consistent very uncoordinated those kind of things okay, and and tell me about I mean who who do you feel you are I? Feel as though I honestly have trouble Pinpointing who I am because I'm always kind of flip-flopping like what I'm doing you know Like I'm very inconsistent I'm very like impulsive And I just kind of like be like oh I want to do this really go hard for it for a while and then I stop And then so who I am is kind of almost based off of who I'm around and like what I'm working toward Yeah, absolutely yeah, so I I think that that's So that's not that's not really the real you Right so like like no, and and I think what you're noticing is that like until we understand who we are like It's almost like Nate you know nature abhors a vacuum And so if you don't know who you are you're gonna fill yourself up with the things around you Mm-hmm and the people around you and the goals like you become the goal because like you you don't know who you kind of are On the inside yeah for sure and I think with twitch I get so carried away man with like the goal right like I get so carried away to the point where I just put everything about my well-being on hold and everything I do Is for the sake of entertainment, and I'm not even living for myself. I've done it for years You know yeah, I'm not saying I'm doing that right now because I'm kind of like half and half right now But I've had moments in my life where I'm just like fuck it. I'm all in with this. You know like this is everything I have it's all you know like it's just easy to get into that thought process We're like oh like I'm you know a mid-20s dumbass who dropped out of college like how else am I gonna? Make this kind of money unless I go all in with this or how else am I gonna find the success again in my life? I probably won't right so it's it's It feels like I almost feel justified and just like going on it that makes sense I think you're very justified in it, so I'd like to dig into that for you because I think that that's not healthy But I think it makes perfect sense because I think you know you have to go all in to compensate for everything else Right so your only chance of success is if you go all in And then I think I think when you go all in you also become more of Mitch Jones and less of a David Yes, that's a hundred percent true, and I have a very hard time distinguishing the two of those people right like Yeah, so tell me about Mitch Jones and tell me about David. How are they different? Well, I'm a very sensitive person. I mean who like deep down to my core I'm very empathetic and sensitive and people don't really know that or see that because I just wall that shit off Yeah, but I really I have always been that way because uh I Don't know why I've just I've always been that way It's like super sensitive and super like I can like almost like I'm like so socially in tune with things that like I it's so weird like Mm-hmm It's just very strange. I have this like social gift almost, but I'm very bad at everything else like I'm it's really weird It's so hard. It's so it's so I'm just so weird. I'm weird. I'm really weird Yeah, yeah, I think when you say you're weird, I think that's a function of you not really understanding who you are It could be it could be I just know that I'm bad at almost everything except understanding emotions Like I have this like way of understanding people and just like getting them without even like knowing they don't have to tell me shit I just know you know mm-hmm, and it's like it's really weird how But yeah, I don't show that I don't show that ever like I don't show my sense of side I try not to I have before right like there's been times in the past where I've gotten very emotional on stream and I like It's always ends poorly. You know people are just like you know like it's very weird You know you either get like a reaction of like oh man Or like you just get a reaction of like fuck you they just keep you know this ad field the fire or whatever Okay, but yeah showing emotion on twitch is almost always bad from what I've noticed What do you why do why do we wall off things? Mitch am I calling you Mitch or David by the way? I mean whatever you want to call me I've gone by Mitch my whole life, but whatever you want to call me is fine. Yeah, so Why do we wall things off Mitch? So to who to like Twitter to everyone or like well in general why do why do we put up guys it? Just it's just easier like I don't think that David would be a Good streamer you know make sense yeah like I would be way too emotional I would I would always look at things like in this weird I would I'd probably just sit there and talk about keto all day You know what I mean like I would literally just like be like oh, I'm working on this I'm working on that like no one gives a shit like they want to see content They want to see this like thing this character this person whatever like they just want. That's what that's what twitch is It's an entertainment platform. You know what I mean? I'd say 99% of the streamers on this website are personified in some way you know absolutely yeah, so it's like to just like To distinguish that from reality is like annoying and it's also very frustrating when I get judged indefinitely on Reddit and everywhere else Based off of like almost like a characters Yeah, it's like I'm doing it for entertainment, but it's like people assume that that's just like how I am So like I'll meet people in real life. They're like oh You're not actually an asshole, and I'm like what like what is that supposed to mean? You know I mean like yeah, what does that mean like I don't understand the Yeah, like it happens to me a lot actually, and I'm just it's just confusing so yeah, what's confusing about that That People misjudge me because even on stream. I don't even think I come off as that much of a dingus I just think I have like a very bad Like reputation I guess okay, not even bad It's like controversial like whatever you want to say like something. It's just like a negative spin on things Yeah, so what happens sometimes so can I just kind of share with you what I'm hearing try to tie a couple things So like I think you know This kind of goes back to first of all you're you're thinking a little bit more about like fitness because it is such a big Part of you or health it's a part of the real you But it's not a part of the persona that you show the rest of the world Oh, if it was me I would love to be a monk dude I would love to just like meditate find my true peace of mind just like Somehow just live the simplest life ever on like a farm like I swear I would love that maybe maybe I get bored of it But for now that sounds like really good Why do you why do you think that? Why don't why do you think that you can't live a simple life in the circumstances that you're in now because there's How how would I do that? I live like in a streamer house. I live in a cesspool of like circles of different I mean, maybe I just don't see how I what do you think a monk does? They have very peaceful eyes right what makes them peaceful I Don't know I think it's they did they don't do like they don't partake in like stressful things that would like Stress them out and their mind and body or whatever, right? So, you know, that's kind of interesting. I mean, I think in a sense that's absolutely correct So monks generally practice in isolation to protect themselves of the influences from the influences of the outside world That sounds great and I also think that most of the work that monks do has nothing to do with the outside world It's about the internal world. Yes, they're inside their mind and body, right? Absolutely So I think that while it's hard to become a monk in the outside world I absolutely think that you can be a monk in the outside world So I'm gonna share with you one of the you know, the goals that one of my teachers taught me Which is to be in the world but not of it Mm-hmm. What does that mean to you? It means you are just existing In this world this world is not your existence something like that, right? Absolutely. What do you think about that? I think that's a very true statement and I think period people get carried away in their own egos and Ideologies all the time when in reality they should just look at it like, you know Like exactly the way you're saying like I feel like when You look at things. I Don't know I don't really get too deep into I don't know I think you understand what I'm saying, right? I do understand what you're saying. What's your reluctance to get too deep into it? I don't know I'm just I'm not very good at articulating words that sound correct so I just rather not say big words are getting to like I do like ideals of like Inner mind and all this stuff, you know, yeah, so what's wrong with? What's wrong with you if you're not good at something what's wrong with doing it? Well, I'd say I'm not the sharpest tool in the shed, right? So when I do it on stream and I just get backlash for it, so I just would rather not so make sense Yeah, so but do you think you're getting backlash now? I'm not even reading chat, but I just would rather not go into like deep like I just know I've done this before where like I'll say some like Five-head stuff or like things that I believe are true and it's like no one will ever take me serious So there's almost no point in me talking about those things Yeah, can I think for a second sure So Mitch I think you don't let yourself be you That could be I Don't think you let yourself be you at all Because I think you're afraid that if people see you they're not gonna like it And somewhere along the way you started to need people's approval. Oh That's a hundred percent when I had people's approval it made me like this God mode streamer like I remember like back in like 2015 16 like I had them the most loving crazy loyal community and like everyone I though everyone if anything ever was bad said about me it was Immediately down voting everyone like, you know like I had a crazy cool fan base and That shit like made me like fired up to like give them like the good content You know like and then one day that kind of all changed and it's like flipped on its head and like I got a shit Of hate and I didn't know how to deal with that. So I just like got super depressed and I had this like it's just like changed everything but the approval was like addicting man, like I'm not gonna lie like when you're getting like Go ahead. Go. Sorry Go go. No. No, I'm saying when you're getting that like positive reinforcement for everything you do it makes doing your job so easy You know, yeah So I I think getting all that positive reinforcement in a weird way was one of the worst things that happened to you Oh Hundred percent. Yeah, I was literally the most spoiled streamer for so long like I could ditch for likes months and come back and still maintain like 8,000 viewers and like this was like five years ago, you know what I mean? And it was nuts like I could literally go on hiatus is and just come back and there was just no one Back then that like was as good as like entertaining or whatever at the time. I mean people Way more entertaining than me now, but I think back then I had a good niche on like this like Whatever I was doing I was doing it I was doing it right, you know what I mean? Yeah, and It was so nice to have that positive reinforcement for so long So I think it's nice to have positive it's nice for anyone to have positive reinforcement, but I think that you It wasn't just positive reinforcement for you. I think it was oxygen and water and lifeblood What the the reinforcement was that yeah, oh 100% yeah, no, I fed off that so hard. Yeah, and and so then the question is why were you hungry? Where you needed to feed off of that? I Don't know. It's almost like I build my identity around it at that point, right? Like I Absolutely. So I think your your identity started to build around that that's when Mitch Jones was born Yeah, that is that is exactly when Mitch Jones was born Yeah And then you started to become an icon and I think the more that you became an icon and the more that you became the stage presence the more you lost yourself Because you've just you've shared with us that you you don't want to show people parts of David because they're they're looking for Mitch Jones and if you show up as David you're gonna get negative reinforcement and somewhere along the way you became dependent upon both the positive Reinforcement and the negative reinforcement and you sort of your life became tied to twitches like Impression of you your worth became tied to twitches impression of you Mm-hmm, and even though the positive reinforcement sounds good. I think both of these are dangerous situations because who you are Becomes determined by how you view you're viewed That's so that's exactly how I feel man, it's like I just wish You could have that moment in the Sun like forever No, that's bad That's so great that those moments were so good though, no, that's not I was riding this high for like years Mitch that is not where I'm trying to lead you. Okay, I know and this has to be understood Like why why do I think that that's bad? Because it's not there's no realistic longevity with that and that's building It's building yourself up on a false narrative anyways, right? Exactly Yeah, no, I understand all of this. It was a fucking damn good time though, man Yeah, I'm sure so I'm sure you'll get there again too. It was a good time. Yeah, thanks for the good time boys. That was good Yeah, that's good And I and this is really important So I want you to like really think about this Mitch where I think that and this is true for everyone who's watching too You know, I think that we sometimes want just the highs from life, but that's not how life works peace from life Doesn't like so you think when you envision just having like your moment in the sunshine forever Right. That's not actually how a monk lives a monk doesn't live with a moment of sunshine forever. They attain their peace But how do they do it? through Honestly being alright with boredom and being alright with mediocrity and all those things like just being alright with whatever is is and they're okay with Exactly. So if you crave your moment in the Sun That's the problem it's the cravings Are you of me though? I swear there's like the one there's like the side of me that doesn't crave that and I can just throw it all away and I've Done it before and then there's a side of me that always comes back. So it's like I'm like almost internally like struggling Yep, like so I desire So now we have to think about where was that second Mitch born? the second Mitch Mitch Jones, let's say Right. Okay. Yeah So think about this was born who needs who needs Like so like I I mean I kind of have I'm trying to lead you to this because I have a hypothesis about this So here's let me just be more transparent instead of like, you know trying to lawyer my way to it So, you know, I I think that there's something generally speaking people crave moments in the Sun When there's something about Themselves or their life that is just like really really hard to accept or deal with So you need twitch to like make you feel good because there's something within you that doesn't make you want to feel that doesn't Make you feel good. And while David overall feels good Like I think you like to connect with him But there's something about David that you want to run away from by becoming Mitch Jones And if you want true peace The way to get rid of the longing for permanent sunshine Like you crave the highs of the good years of twitch once again The way to get rid of that craving is to be satisfied with who you are Yeah, no, I agree. I agree with that and I've I've done work to do that But doing that at the same time as twitch seems almost impossible. I think that that's really hard It's like super hard like imagine trying to like be this thing and then having to like It's like turn it off and on always it's just like it's awesome. Yeah, it sounds really hard I don't know if it's actually possible but So I think that's why I've always taken long breaks from twitch and I'm just like, okay I got to find out who I am again and I find myself again and I lose myself again and I find myself again It's like a cycle So when we think about David's life What is it that that bothers you the most about David's life? Hundred percent not being able to connect to anyone Anyone that's the most thing like I can't connect with any people. I don't trust anyone in my like There's just no way I can like make meaningful relationships because I truly think that the only reason people come into my life Anyway is for Mitch Jones not for David. Does that make sense? Yep So therefore it's super hard for me to make meaningful relationships like super hard, right and that sucks And I feel like it's been almost every girl I've dated Almost every person I've interacted with like it's just it's it's a really sad lonely existence when you know that You're just a piece of meat, you know, like you're not anything else but a piece of meat. You weren't always lonely You're right. I had real friends and a bunch of cool people that I grew up with until those things faded and then You know, I kind of had to dive into this world that is like almost like Hollywood 2.0. Yep So I I think I think what you've got to manage and I'm still sort of beating around the bush You know, so so you've kind of mentioned to me before that there there's someone there there have been people in your life or one Person in particular who's really like known you and accepted you Yes. Yes There's been a few like I still have like one really close friend back home But we don't keep in touch so much, but he definitely understands me and like has connected to me on that level as well But this like that and how old you were how old were you when Mitch Jones was born? I'd say 21. Okay. How old were you when your mom got sick? Like 18 19 Yeah, it depends on what you like I was always kind of like a laughing like like Mitch Jones isn't like a completely Personified made-up thing like it's like that's how I can get into that place like just being myself You know, but it's like when you have to force yourself to that place then it's almost like what is this? You know, like this makes perfect sense. So I think that it is a piece of my personality It's just like absolutely you have to Dave it out. You know, David was a clown Yeah, 100% I was David Yeah, 100% I was David's always been a crowd. I think that's a part of who you are I think that's a part of your authentic self Yeah, yeah for sure. No, and my general hypothesis Mitch just so I'll kind of lay it out is I think that You know, I think a lot of this comes down to your mom. I Think a lot of it does as well and I there's nothing I can do about that though You know, that's that's already done. I Guess I can maybe like what kind of thinking is that? I I don't know. I don't know what I can do Yeah, sorry, I can't change what happened, you know, you can't change what happened But yeah a lot of it does come down to that how so Because I just truly think like she was like the rock in my life that just kept everything Okay, and then I lost that and I had to like and I tried to like what are you doing? I'm just randomly shifting tabs because I'm just being ADHD. I don't think so. You haven't been doing that very much. I Don't know. Yeah, I just really fidgeting. I don't know why absolutely. I completely agree What's changed in the last 60 seconds? I? Don't know I guess we started talking about saying that's bothering me Absolutely, right. So what does your mind do when we talk about something that bothers you it wanders and you're right. It's wandering It's like trying to avoid that doesn't like it. Yeah, absolutely And what's the what's the perfect way to avoid it? Fidgeting around and so I think Mitch Jones is the ultimate fidget. Oh So you think if I become Mitch I Don't have to none of these things surface and I can just What I can just carry on. Yeah, I think that yeah, I mean true. Yes, definitely cuz like when I'm streaming I don't think about this shit. I'm just like in the mode. I'm in the mode, you know, absolutely, right? And you want to zone so here's the thing about giving it your all when you become Mitch Jones you give it your all, right? It requires a hundred percent of you Yeah, and you can't give it your all without forgetting about things You can't hold on to your mom even one percent. You can't be Mitch Jones if you're thinking about her like, you know that You can't be the this sort of and I have no doubt that like the clown within you is like a genuine part of who you are And I think that that even Mitch Jones is like actually like a really authentic. There's like there's an authentic There's a really pure piece of you in there There's the guy that like got into your mom's car without wearing any clothing like that's like that was you that was the real you Right. Yeah That's really who you are and you show that part to the internet and that's why they love you Because you're not putting on an act. I think you're just giving them a slice Yeah, yeah, no, that's true I think I got popular in the first place just because I was a dumbass that was like a good mage and wow, you know Yeah, I wasn't like anything cuz I was I don't know like I wasn't really trying and just kind of happened And then once it happened, I started trying because like it got more competitive and stuff like that Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, I think all that stuff is cool. I think you know, you've had a like a roller coaster of a streaming career Oh 100% I've had some crazy highs and some crazy lows like it's it's really weird And if it's okay with you Mitch, I'm gonna come back to your mom Yeah, no problem Because I think you've got to be like I don't think you'll ever be whether you're a monk Living in a farm or you're here. I don't think you're gonna find peace until you like sort of like Process that and deal with that and you kind of look at your life and you see there's nothing I can do about it But I I in a sense that's true like you can't cure her of what she has But I think that there's a lot of work there to be done And how how do you suggest that I heal that pain I think we start by facing it, right? We start by not fidgeting We start by not opening tabs and sitting with it and understanding what it is I think i've been facing it for so long though. Like I mean every once in a while i'll just like Face it like it's it's it had just happens no matter what like yeah. Yeah, and what happens when you face it? I get super emotional and then and then I just try to get back to normal and then I carry on Yeah, so I think the mistake you're making is in trying to get back to normal So I shouldn't try to get back to normal No, I mean, I think that's that's what monks do right so the monks don't try to get anywhere They just let it all happen Yeah, right to accept what is I I think what you're missing is actually grief So I I think the process of grief is like if I had to put like, you know I if I had to use a word to describe what you need to do. It's grieving Because grieving is how we You know, you can't like you can't change anything in grief. Does that make sense and it's still really really important to do Like there are bad things that happen and we can't bring people back from the dead And I don't know if you I don't know if you realize this but like I I think in your mind like they're like your mom is Like not really like she's gone Yeah, she definitely she's not gone per se it's just like she's not the person that she Was or it's very difficult to watch someone Deteriorate, you know, it's just yeah It's almost the worst thing ever when you like see someone's personality like be stripped from them and their speech be stripped Their movement be stripped. It's it's it's honestly the most heartbreaking thing I've ever had to see in my life and like when I Witness when I every time I fly home I truly just Have a hard time functioning because of how like distraught and like upset and sad I feel and I hate those feelings I hate them I hate them so much. They make me Unfunctional and then if I come on like let's say I want to stream that day I'll come on twitch and everyone knows and they can see the weakness in me. They they see it, you know, and like twitch is they're very Good Good at seeing weakness, right? And like I get I get picked I get torn apart and quite frankly, I'm I'm like terrified of like crying or like Those type of like deep emotions on stream. I I get very much so shit on four, you know Like i've done it on stream before and like I've It's just people call me victim jones or say i'm a pussy or whatever. It's like mitch So i'm gonna do something that if this feels insensitive or mean to you, please let me know But you keep on moving back to twitch in a way from your mom So i'm gonna keep you there. So like you see that like you're coming to So so I I think I shouldn't think about twitch ever. No, no, you can think about this. Nope Nope, you can think about whatever you want to so it's gonna be my job to keep us on track And i'm asking for your permission to do so. Oh, I I give you permission to do whatever you want So that you let your mind do what it wants to that's actually okay So like that that's the reason you're talking to me is is so it's bad that I keep going back to that That's like not helping my healing no Yes, and it's okay Right because that's that's just that's exactly what i'm saying. So like you see how your mind is fidgeting So like you start opening tabs and then we kind of go back because like in a weird way your mind is comfortable with talking about the pain of twitch That's a roller coaster that your mind is actually completely fine with even though it's painful You can talk about that. You can access that what's really hard for you to sit with is your mom And by the way, I think the reason that you know, you kind of say but i've dealt with it before I faced it before And you know, i'm like it's like i'm not healed yet and I think absolutely that's true And I don't think that you've not faced it properly I think like if we really think about this, I think you've done a good job of facing it But I I think your situation is actually like really really heartbreaking because it's going on Right, so like when i'm when my dad passed away eight years ago He was gone Like all at once And then I could grieve him and move on with my life And in a bizarre way compared to your situation i'm lucky Because what i'm hearing from you is like every time you see her like another part of her Like kind of withers away and she's still your mom and you still love her and you can see the parts that are there But like there's you can't it's not like it's not talking about grieving once It's like grieving like a like again and again and again like every single time And so I don't hold you like I don't blame you at all for not being able to move past it Because this is fucking like it's hard man. It's like watching someone. I mean she had brain cancer, right? Yeah, yeah, I mean so i've seen this with people who have like cancer Cancer Yeah, it's like it just has so much man like two strokes two brain surgeries Just like I'm having trouble keeping it cool. That's fine. Don't keep it. This is why I just hate talking about this I hate it, but these feelings are so painful, man. Yeah Yeah And I'm just feels so fucking unfair I just don't understand yeah Because it is unfair, dude And and there isn't there isn't and there isn't understanding Yeah, and I get really sad like I see um I see all these like people that I live with and everyone they have like such like loving parents and like families And I just feel so fucking lonely man. Like I feel so fucking lost like I don't even all I have is this like this is why I like put all my chips and like All I have is this thing that I've built because I don't have anything to go back to you know Like I I just my mom is not the same. She never will be my brother is at this point in like some assisted living because I don't even know why the hell he's there but he is and he's not doing well And then my dad is just focused on his work and I I don't I don't know I just feel like i'm super alone I don't have the traditional like sense of love and family and any of that shit is just it just doesn't feel like I feel alone in this world. I feel very alone and I don't trust anyone and it sucks Yeah, so mich, let me let me explain something to you. Okay, so I say this with love You feel alone in this world because you are alone in this world I don't want to be alone, man. I don't want you to be alone either But I I think it starts with like understanding where you are Right and and I think that unfortunately you have been dealt one of the shittiest hands that life has to offer And and that's like I don't know how like i'm not trying to like I feel like there's a part of me that thinks that i'm beating up on you But I mean that's just the truth Right because you had one person in your life and and she's like withering away and you're watching it happen in front of you What you're dealing with is not like depression. I mean sure there may be depression there, but I I think like this is what we call like complex trauma Right. So in psychiatry like, you know, i'm not supposed to diagnose things over the internet But like there's this like kind of merging like there's a difference between one event Like so simple trauma is like if you get you know, like let's say you Get sexually assaulted or something like that. Like that's pretty bad But then complex trauma is when you have like a loved one Who like continually abuses you like over the course of years and it's a completely different animal It's not just straight up ptsd. It's like deeper And what I see in you is someone who hasn't been like life hasn't like You know sucker punched you once it's just like you take a beating every time You kind of think about your life and your loved ones and stuff like that Every time you kind of think about your life and your loved ones and stuff like that And then there's this other weird thing that's happened is like in order to protect yourself from that Mitch jones rises from the ashes Right, which allows you to access just that part of you Which is like beautiful and funny and clowny and amazing and it's like it's your moment in the sunshine But that sunshine is born out of like you stuffing other shit into the shadows Like mitch jones is in the spotlight and in order for mitch jones to be in the spotlight. He's got to push david out of it And then david is alone Yeah, fuck david absolutely that's what you've been doing Right, yeah Because you don't like being david because it's hard to be david and I get that man. I really do In a sense, I actually don't I have no idea because you know, I mean i've lost a parent But you know, I still have people in my life who love me and i'm really really grateful for that And I I think in your case like the tricky thing about mitch jones is then No opening tabs stay with me The tricky thing about mitch jones is then you become mitch jones and then what's frustrating to you is that when people meet you on the street You want them to see david? Right when you meet people in real life, I want to be myself. Yeah, I don't want to have to be this like Clowny thing that's like entertaining people all the time, you know So in a bizarre way it reinforces your loneliness because those are the moments where david can be seen Those are the moments where like other people can like, you know get to know you and you can start to form A real human connection, but instead all they see is mitch jones Yeah, that's true And so I honestly feel like mitch jones is the is the thing that brings me any type of it's brought me everything I have like you know what I mean? Like if I was just me If I was just if I was just if I just let myself be like david the sad cunt walking around I would just be another depressed boomer who's broken lonely or whatever. Absolutely, right? And that's what makes this really hard So understand this mitch you have not gotten to this place because you're dumb You have gotten to this place because your strategy works really well Mitch jones is your savior and And he's what's holding you back Right because he's what he's what prevents you from healing. I'm living in a A tug of war constantly. Absolutely How does that feel? It feels it feels bad, man. It feels bad Because I can't just like focus on one, you know, I have to do both Yeah, so so the problem here is that like it's not david and mitch under the spotlight It's like they take turns and there are times where you turn off mitch jones you go home And then you become david again and you don't like david so you start to like move away from him So I think that it's not that I just like david. It's more of just like having to sit in that Mental for a long period of time drags me into it so deep that I can't get out like i'll just start just like I'll start getting very like anti-social and just doing like You know, whatever like just the not productive things, you know So it's almost like it's better to just not let that person come out because it's almost always negative Exactly. So now I want like now let's understand that right? So how can you heal? If you never let that person out Which kind of makes sense because if you let that person out he takes over Leads to like all kinds of bad shit happening on stream. You become less successful So I think what I would like to really help you do mitch is teach you How to let david out how to let those negative feelings out without spiraling out of control I would like you to be able to be yourself and feel those negative feelings And then also to like, you know, it's kind of work. We're gonna open the closet door We're gonna take out something that's disorganized. We're gonna organize a little bit and then put it back in the closet Because I I don't think that you're gonna I mean this is not the strategy that you have is like Materialistically successful, but I don't think it's gonna lead you to peace Oh, it's not And and you've got to I mean you can't you can't live like this, you know, you you've got to you've got to Learn how to grieve and and process those feelings and then also like the more that you do that the less you have to be Mitch jones and the more that you can be like the authentic clowny david who's like kind of like mitch jones And then my hope my my real hope for you is that as you become less of this like caricature of yourself That you can start to form like really authentic connections with people And then my real hope for you is that like at the end of all of this you it's not about success It's about you not being alone anymore That's really more than anything else in the world. I want you to not feel very I have a question for you. Yeah, do you think it's best for me to just find like My peace of mind to be able to make connections and that's more important than like the success of my twitch channel I'm asking you because like yeah They they almost don't go hand in hand like if i'm working on myself and doing my own thing like that person could be A bad boring streamer, you know like So so I I don't accept your premise because I think that the way that so previously when david used to come on twitch It led to a bad stream I don't accept that that has to be true going forward Yes, I agree. I think the maturing could be a good arc for my thing And also I think you should be your clowny fucking self Like I think you should be what twitch loves you for because I think that's a real part of you Yeah for sure and I and my so Overwhelmingly i've worked with a lot of people mitch and a lot of people are afraid because they this is how like this is how life Works where people come up with all these weird compensatory mechanisms Like like, you know, i'll just give you an example. So I was working with someone who whose dad the one time That their dad ever said something good about them is when they were a normal weight. They got sent to fat camp and they lost stuff and were at like the bottom end of like like below that is like when they start to become anorexic and When they came back from fat camp the one nice thing their their dad ever said to them is you look good Rest of the time it was like Emotional abuse and judgment you're fucking this up and you're doing that bad and things like that So one one time in her life where like she ever got positive feedback from her dad And so her desire to like meet her dad's expectations Caused her to like study so hard and work so hard and take care of her appearance where she became incredibly incredibly successful Entered the world of finance made like shit tons of money married someone who was equally ambitious and rich and so her whole life is based off of like This track of success which is rooted in you know, not to oversimplify things But essentially like a pattern it's not that she was trying to make her dad happy It's that in order to make her dad happy she learned a certain way of functioning which was giving it a hundred Percent which was going all in which is what you do too when you go on stream And she's afraid that if she lets go of that initial Wound that all of the ambition and hard work is going to go with it That's a great way of putting it. Yeah, that's that's that's spot on. That's exactly what I feel Yeah, I feel as though if I were to actually Get my shit together quote unquote that could ruin me Yep, because a lot of what the appeal of my channel has been is honestly it's it's a fucking tornado You never know what you're gonna get it could be some craziness or whatever. Like it's just always something ridiculous, right? And like that's good content. It is, you know, and it's just like If if it's just like normal david like that, you know Then then then what like I don't I don't have a college degree. You know what I mean? Like I don't know what I do Yeah, so I think it's a very reasonable fear and i'm telling I mean the reason I shared that story with you is because I think you know, it's a reasonable fear. The other interesting thing is you wouldn't fear that unless Deep down you understood that these two things are connected Yeah, does that make sense? It does. Yeah So what do you think happened is is we started working as I started working with this person and she started to feel more confident In herself, what do you think happened? I'd say that her wound slowly healed and she stayed successful. Absolutely Yeah, in fact, she became more successful Yeah, I don't doubt it because those ideals don't go away, especially when they've been they've been like there for that long so healing her wounds can only just make her more powerful in the end of it. Yeah, but What what is healing your wounds gonna do mitch? I mean potentially the same thing Absolutely, so that's what i've seen time and time again Well, I would love to do that and honestly if I could like become a different entity to where like I don't have to you know Exert myself so hard. Yeah, does that make sense? Absolutely. That would be great. Yeah, I would love that I would love to be respected for not being like Yeah, like I used to be respected for like for example for like being very good at what a warcraft and like that was nice Like not just being like oh, it's that guy who's controversial and whatever, you know It's it's way better to be known for something being good at something than this just be Be known to be known Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. So you're talking about kind of like fame versus notoriety, right? Yeah, it's like I want to be known for actually being good at something not for just being some fucking jackass clown Who hits on girls and cringes around you know? Yeah, so let's be i'm gonna teach you kind of how to process your emotions in a second But let's just talk about successive twitch streaming for a second. Okay, so here's the thing to understand Her psychological wounds when i'm talking about my patient her psychological wounds and her psychological healing has nothing I mean in a sense it has something to do with her her success in her job But like yeah being good at your job is about being fucking good at your job Yeah, for sure So if you want to be a successful twitch streamer you need to do the things that will make you a successful twitch streamer Don't think for a moment in the same way that all this deep dark hurt and stuff that hasn't really made you a successful twitch streamer Like you've sort of sniffed out and evolved into someone who's become a successful twitch streamer And in the same way if you believe that healing this is going to magically make you more successful. That's not going to happen either Oh, of course not the work. It just makes you lighter to be able to work harder, right? Absolutely, so I think your life will improve But being a successful twitch streamer is about doing the things that make you a successful twitch streamer And if that involves being I know that I know that left and right good Yeah So the next thing is that you know I think they come to you because you're kind of this clowny person and stuff like that And I think you should continue to channel that And also if they come to you because you're a little bit of a tornado you should also do that because I think naturally you're a little bit of a tornado Oh 100. Yeah, right. I love a little bit of spice in my life Yeah, so so then I'd say continue doing that like great So you don't want to be you don't want to be like wholesome like you you don't want to be like wholesome Because that's just not who you are Right, yeah, yeah But but you also don't want to be a fucking train wreck who disappears for months at a time and is like, you know Like I think it's fine to display in there. Yeah, I've been there And there's something about I think there's something about You know you being able to smile and make jokes and also from time to time show that you're like you feel alone and stuff like that I think that's actually why you became successful Because I think that like you got to understand that twitch chat is like broken right? Like we're all broken We're all fucked man. We're all broken And so what we love to see is someone who can smile and enjoy their life and like still be successful and kind of clown around Because I was so good at hiding it back in the day man. I swear Man, I swear like no one would have known I was cracking No, you weren't I disagree 100% mitch. I think all of them knew No, and you put on no they they knew and you put on such a good front That they thought they could do that too. They thought they could become mitch but deep down they fucking knew Yeah, it's all a matter of time till david comes out of all of us. I guess they knew And the fact the fact that you hid it so well is I think what gave them so much hope Right because they didn't see it Yeah, but they knew deep down mitch. I think they knew I swear to god. I I just when I watched this But I even felt it man like the way I felt was i'm just like all right like i'm i'm doing it like we're out here Like I don't have any problems like let's just positive positive positive like I just radiated positivity for so long So fucking toxic dude, that is so toxic Is it yes, this would be a positive ball of fun. That's bad Yeah, because I mean that's you pushing david into the shadows, right? So I think it's fine to be a positive ball of fun, but I think you have to give yourself space to be negative Yeah, no, but i've been negative now for a long time So like you know like it went from like polar ships like i'm talking like super positive everything was good to like depressed awful terrible You know like i'm talking like so bad both of those are wrong, right? So this is something so so now mitch this is this is exactly like so last time we talked about black and white thinking Why do you think i've been like pushing you with black and white thinking? Um because it's Pretty obvious. That's what I do. It's like always polar opposites. There's no middle ground exactly Yeah, and the monk is the one who walks the middle ground I need to get to the monk middle man I need to get the middle. So this is how it starts. Okay Okay, I want you to sit up straight Okay Sitting up. Oh Okay, sitting. Yeah do that for your good Treat your back with a little bit of kindness Oh, yeah, okay. So so you're leaning back Because you've got like a gaming chair Okay, this is what I want you to scoot your chair back in a little bit grab one of your pillows And I want you to sit on one of your pillows All right, and I want you to sit don't lean back into the chair So I want you to sit up. Yeah And I want your your your knees to be lower than your hips or your knees lower than your hips Uh, yes Okay, grab another pillow So you're even more elevated All right, we'll take this one. Okay. That's two. Hold on. I'll just get it this big one Big pillow. Yeah good Oh Oh, how tall are you? Uh five eleven, okay So chairs are not designed for okay. So now don't don't lean back. So sit forward sit at the edge of your chair Okay, okay, do do you feel with the second pillow that you can sit up straighter Yeah Okay Now close your eyes All right, so no leaning back like up right? Yeah, so sit up Okay closing my eyes. Yeah Okay. So now what we're gonna do is we're gonna talk a little bit about your mom I'm gonna just say some things about your mom and I want you to just notice what comes up. Okay? Uh, man, I get sad every time but all right good. So tell me what you feel. What is the sadness? I Feel helpless. I feel angry. I feel Grief pain sorrow misery all those things. It's all I'm glad how I think about that. I'm glad you're able to feel all of that shit Now tell me what it feels like in your body Um anxiety Okay, what does anxiety feel like where do you feel it in your body? Kind of like right here good feel tight. Okay. Yeah, it feels like tight Okay eyes need to remain closed as best as you can. Okay, so and then do you feel so what is what is the misery? Feel like where do you feel the misery? Definitely in my like thoughts my like negative Thinking do you do you feel do you feel like like a any kind of like sensation like in your head? Yeah, definitely my head. Yeah, like what does that feel like? I feel heavy like my head is just heavy. I can't there's no point in like going on. Okay Doom effect. Yeah, so so your body feels heavy your head feels heavy. You feel tightness in your chest Anything in your throat or your stomach? Um Uh, I always have stomach stuff but I Yeah, I have like acid reflux or whatever that is, okay, so yeah, I want you to focus back On the sensation of heaviness in your head or tightness in your chest You feel those are they still there or we've like start talking about acid reflux and they go away No, they're they're still there. Okay. So what I want you to do is I want you to breathe in through your nose for three seconds And then out for three And now in for three and out for five Go out for five You guys can do this at home too, okay and then in for three and out for seven Seven And now in for five and out for seven You And now in for five and out for nine I want you to continue breathing kind of in that pattern where I want you to take good slow inhalations But especially slow exhalations And now what I want you to do is as you breathe in focus on the air coming into you That cool sweet air. It's kind of energy in life And it's like kind of like going into the heaviness and you can feel that expansion of tightness So breathe into it What are you feeling talk to me Sadness A lot of sadness. I want to like break down and i'm trying not to okay. So it's okay to break down Okay, okay But what I want you to do is as you feel that sadness But what I want you to do is as you feel that sadness so hold the sadness with one hand I really just I don't want to like do this on stream I feel I feel like i'm just gonna get ridiculed or something, you know, okay I definitely feel emotional very emotional. Okay, so I want you to hold on to that emotion. Mitch. Stay with me. Okay? Okay That's okay, this is what this is what we're here for, okay Okay Okay, if it gets to be too much I can snap you out of it, but I i'd like to I'd like to be there with you Okay, i'm okay. I'm okay. I just don't want to get too overwhelmed to where i'm like rolling on the floor or whatever That's okay. That's okay. We'll we'll keep you from getting there. I think you're doing a good job though This is exactly what we want. We need those feelings to come out Okay I'm feeling tingly like all over my body like okay Return to the breath. Mitch. Listen to my words return to the breath in for three out for five Good out through the mouth is fine in through the nose out through the mouth Good Feel your chest expand One more don't stop Okay, give me three more breaths and then you can cry Two more One more you can do it stay with me Okay Oh I don't understand why I can't keep my cool right now. I don't understand No, no, it's not about keeping your I I need to keep my cool. I just I don't no, I don't like this. I don't like this Okay so Mitch If this is hard for you, that's okay. We can stop It sounds like it's a little bit overwhelming. So we're gonna stop. Okay Okay, okay Go pee You I apologize. Seriously, I'm so sorry for what I don't know. I just I'm just I just I just apologize. I feel as though I can't control myself. It's embarrassing, you know Sure. I can understand that it's embarrassing. But why do you need to control yourself? I don't know So we apologize Go ahead. No, no, it's cool I just I don't want to come off as though like I'm in pain or a victim or any of that shit I just got to you know, like it's bad like I can't do that What keeps you from doing that? What keeps you from doing that? It's just not good trust me i've i've been here and I just I feel uncomfortable with like I get ridiculed or like it's it's just I it's just not good. I have weird It's bad. So Mitch a couple of things to just think about Okay So the first is that if you want to have a conversation off of stream, I think i'm open to that So you just let me know so think about that. Okay Okay, you know, it's it's totally fine. I just I feel like I'm being opened up and that's good. It's it feels good It really feels like i'm like freeing bad negative energy but at the same time like I just i've been very much so like shit on in the past for like doing so, you know, like I've had I've been through very negative experiences in In sharing my sadness If that makes sense. Yeah, I i'm with you. So I I think that let's let's move um Yeah, you good you got that wait, why are the dogs in here? What are you doing buddy? Can you get this one? I'm sorry. You got that's it. No, I think that's actually exactly what you need All right, cool, I think they sensed something Yeah, the dogs are just rolling around Okay No, I appreciate you more than you know, and this has nothing to do with you Like it's not like I feel as though this is very good I just I just don't want to put myself in a situation where i'm going to be Perfectly opened up to be like attacked, you know, yep. Yeah, so I think if that's been your experience, let's respect The let's respect those boundaries. I think mitch i'm i'm gonna help you pull out of this. Okay You want to I don't know Okay, you want to pull out of this? Whatever you whatever whatever you think is correct. I'm i'm okay I'm just letting you know like I just had I just Overwhelming a lot a lot of things like hitting me at once and it's yeah, that's all you know I got i'm not like i'd like to explain to you intellectually what's going on within you right now. What do you think about that? I would I would like that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay So this is going to have the added benefit of as we engage our intellectual mind your feelings hopefully will calm down a little bit Okay, so mitch this shit is right beneath the surface. This is a high pressure situation. Does that make sense? like all we have to do is calm your mind a little bit and like all we have to do is like like, you know, this is kind of like You know poking a hole in a dam and then there's so much water that like a little bit comes out Like all we're trying to do is we're poking a tiny tiny hole And instead of just like one little trickle of water coming out There's so much pressure back there that all of these feelings are coming out Yeah, right all we have to do so understand this when we start to meditate which by the way you're gifted at When we start to meditate I'll you're gifted at you're good at it When we start to meditate what happens is our mind becomes empty Okay, is our mind becomes empty. It becomes somewhat of a vacuum And whatever pressure is built up within us Starts to fill that vacuum of the mind So there are some ways that I can trigger emotion in you by asking certain questions, right? So I can pointedly ask you about your mom and that can trigger emotion But even talking about your mom, the emotion is pretty manageable. Stay with me. Listen, listen, you with me Yeah, yeah, stay with the intellectual. Okay Yeah, i'm trying i'm trying hard my emotions are just pouring man. I'm trying Okay, would you actually so then let me ask you Do you think we should just sit with those emotions for a little bit or would you like me to Kind of put it put a band-aid. I was enjoying you. Yeah, I was enjoying the band-aid. Okay, good So let's continue with the band-aid. So I I think this is just there's just a pile of emotions That's down there and it doesn't take a whole lot of emptiness to let those emotions out So oftentimes people who meditate for like extended period like, you know, once you get good at meditation People have these kinds of like emotional breakthroughs Where like something deep that's buried within them like kind of comes out And the deeper it's buried The better you have to get at meditation the more you have to empty your mind in order to let that out. Does that make sense? Yeah, it does in your case either you're really really good at meditating which I do believe you're gifted in Or it's not buried very deep Does that make sense? It does make sense. Yes Does that make sense It does make sense. Yes. So I am like the damn you said like yeah So buddy like I just don't think like like i'm gonna just say this simply You see how much emotion is in there you see all of the stuff that's in there the misery the sadness the anger The aloneness all that crap is in there. There is no way like what you long for is peace There is no way you can attain peace while that is there Yeah, the good news so what happens if you you cut yourself mitch what happens to the wound Heals over time how does it know to do that? Well, I'd say white blood cells go to the area and get very present and start working their magic and Yeah So the cool thing about the human body is that wounds heal over time. That's just how we work. It's fucking amazing That's just how we work it's fucking amazing All we have to do is let them Right. So in your case, you've done such a good job at building up walls around this stuff Where it's like you're not letting your mental white blood cells like get to the wound and start the process of healing it Whether you believe it or not like so you felt an overwhelming amount of emotion and then you described as feeling good and light So it's like it's kind of weird like so that's actually the healing It's like unfortunately healing doesn't look like what it looks like in wow Yeah, it doesn't which is just green numbers and then your health bar goes up Just eating some manna biscuits and you're yeah. Yeah, unfortunately, that's not how it works I wish it was man. Yeah me too, man I feel like emotional healing is so difficult and tricky and hard to understand Absolutely, man, absolutely. It's so hard And and and but I I think if you feel a little bit lighter, you know You talked about feeling heavy in your head. How does your head feel now? A little better. I just know that I very much so suppressed like that could have been a full-blown like yeah Like I felt so heavy like so many things wanted to express themselves and I just don't I don't know how to express myself I just don't Uh, I I don't want to feel those right now. So I I know that like yeah Yeah, so this is what I hate about twitch. So normally What I like about doing this kind of work So I do this kind of work with people in my office and then what we we tend to do is they they can because it's also Private and then what i'll do is i'll hug them So generally speaking as a psychiatrist, it's a bad idea to touch your patients because people say you shouldn't touch your patients Some time ago. I couldn't help myself and I just started hugging people Like I hug my patients because I feel like that's really what like what you need what you really need in that moment And this is what I hate about twitch I was talking about this at the beginning of the stream that twitch feels fundamentally unsatisfying to me Because what you need in that moment is to be held Yeah, and the dog sensed it the dogs They they really did And and what you really need in those moments is to let that out and to be held and to not be alone Which like I know that twitch chat is with us and you're not truly alone But like physically and like oxytocin levels and stuff like that like you just need to be not alone Yeah, is it weird that like twitch to me feels like my my only family It feels like my only thing that like I can truly just talk to and just like vent and whatever No, I don't think it I I used to think it was weird until I actually started looking at it for what it was Instead of judging it from like boomer perceptions Yeah, yeah So like, you know the boomer generation we fundamentally believed that human connection cannot be attained over the internet Like there was a time where like online dating was not the norm. It was what the rejects did And it was like shameful that like you met your your partner online like because you couldn't find someone in real life So you had to like do the online dating where the weirdos happen But now like online dating is the norm and there are some ways I I think I you know you say this is the really this is what pisses me off if I could if I could take one thought Out of your mind, it would be the one where i'm afraid to do this because people are gonna attack me I've because I have a very uh, so I think that very weird history with uh, like I With like showing emotion on twitch, I guess does that make sense? Yeah, so so I understand why you feel that way and I think that that is an appropriate and logical feeling And I also think that twitch is your family and I think that's what's fucking beautiful about it Yeah, is that like like what I have seen is like, you know, I mean I you know, I i watch twitch I participate in twitch I enjoy myself a dank meme from meme from time to time dank memes You know just like just really dank and like the kind of stuff that you you missed out on the good times, man I'm telling you what does it mean 15 and stuff? Those were the dankest memes No, dude watch it twitch then Of course, man Oh, you were a dank memer in back in the day, dude The dankest like so look man. I was around I was around I was around when memes were born Okay, uh shoot true boomer like true boomer like all your base are belong to us like people don't even know what that means anymore They don't understand nice right Yeah, like yatta You know yeta No, I don't know what that is see this is like you fucking What is that? Gen Z noobs Like you guys don't know like like Man, so like this is like back when memes were born, man like buffalox You guys know what i'm talking about? Come on twitch you guys know about buffalox Okay, so we're a little bit over our head or out of our league here Yeah So one day we're gonna have to do dr. K does the history of memes and i'm gonna show you guys the sweetest dankest most original memes but well anyway, so but I was surrounded in the good old days and I I think it's not weird, right? So mich what I want you to understand is that twitch can be your family And and that's why like, you know on the one hand you're afraid of what they're gonna do to you because in the past they have hurt you But just like a normal family sometimes they do things that hurt you and sometimes they do things that make you feel loved That's a lot easier that's for sure Yeah, yeah But it's it's not real though, you know, like I need to find like things that actually ground me that aren't I don't know I I don't I wouldn't say that it's not real. I just don't think that it's enough right So so I I think that the what the vibes that I feel over the internet are actually genuine But it's just not enough Oh, yeah. No, I feel it for sure Like I told you I have like a weird empathetic side of myself and like when I can truly feel that like that like Love power from the internet. It like shoots me to like being a normal person for like a couple weeks. It's weird Okay, it's really weird All right Okay, so um mitch so practically do you meditate Uh, do I I do sometimes yes, I don't practice it all the time But like there haven't it depends on the phase i'm in in my life, you know, but I definitely have gone years Where I meditate at least once or twice a week. So i'm a little bit. Um Honestly, i'm a little bit lost as to how to advise you So generally speaking what I so I think what you did today with that little bit of meditation was actually really good for you And I think you need to keep doing it I think the concern that I have is that i'm not sure that You have the enough of a guardrail around you to keep from like really that damn bursting So yeah, but is the damn bursting like very bad? Will that spill over into days and weeks or I I hope not but the short answer is I don't know in your case Right, so I think there's a lot of emotion that's right underneath the surface and so my Generally what i'll tell people is i'll tell them to like practice a certain kind of meditation or something like that in your case Unfortunately, I just don't know if that's like really like safe or handleable right now Um, I I would say that if you're interested in trying again You should think about finding another therapist because you only went once right? Yeah, I went to a therapist once and I didn't really get very far with them either Yeah, so I I would really consider it like add that to your list of you know blueberries and other things like smoothies and things that you do to take care of yourself because I think you're in a slightly different place Now and you may be able to get more out of it. Just a thought The other thing is I I think you feel the stuff deeply in your body do you exercise Uh Very um Inconsistently, but do you go to do you have access to a yoga class? I've never done yoga, but I do stretch from time to time. I see you got it. Okay Done. You gotta go to yoga I do massages and like Deep tissue stuff just like not yoga never tai chi No, never no tai chi. Okay, so you gotta do yoga or tai chi one of those two Okay, I think that's like where you get super hot and then they like stretch where you're hot It's not about stretching at all. It's also not about heat It is about mind body so the goal of yoga Is not about stretching. It's about to put yourself In a physical posture in which you're stable and also brings the attention of the mind to the present. That's the goal of yoga So it's a meditative a meditative experience. Absolutely more so than like a physical one. Absolutely. So it is a mind body practice So it's one that sounds really That sounds like it could be really good for healing like stuff like this It is really good for healing Am I gonna sit there and cry in front of all the cute yoga girls and stuff? Like I don't really want to know you won't do that. You may do that at the end But that's exactly what we want right? And if you cry in front of the cute yoga girls You need to learn how to let yourself be david instead of mitch in front of the cute yoga girls It's hard. I swear when you have an audience It's almost like you just immediately want to like feel like good because you know, it's like it's like Yes, unprofessional or whatever if something's bad, there's a bad stigma to it. That's what we got to fucking Fixing you man Like I know it's hard but like yeah So go and instead of being watched by thousands of people on the internet. It's just gonna be half a dozen cute girls and guys It's like you prefer Yeah So so just give it a shot and then the next time we talk like please do it at least once or ideally three times So that you can tell me how to work to you want me to do yoga Three times in the next couple weeks. Yeah, like ideally in the next week And then you let me know You know if if part of the audience makes this harder for you, then you let me know and then we can also talk You know, uh, you know not on stream, but if if you know But I I think it's going to be good for you because I appreciate that. I uh, well if you if you um If we could do both like on stream and off stream because there are things that are very deep, uh, and like Would almost like come off as bias for sure on stream, but I would like to talk to you about if that makes sense Yeah, yeah So we can we can we can set up a you know some time, but I think in the short term Here's why I think yoga is better for you. So like when we do meditation It's a purely mental practice. So all of the emotions come out Yoga is going to give you a chance to let some of that stuff out like physically without it sort of like mentally rushing in And try it a couple of times and then when we check in next you can just tell me how it's going whether you like It or you don't like it and I can try to give you some other suggestions in terms of guidance I assume that I will like it. So I think you're gonna like I do like I like anything That's like like I love like things like that like saunas and all that kind of stuff. Yeah, he's good for you. Yeah Yeah And who knows maybe you'll make an authentic human connection But don't expect no expectations It's so weird man. Like i'm so shy and like Unwilling to talk to people off stream, but then as soon as the camera's on i'm just like talking to everyone, right? Like it's just yeah, it's so weird like yeah You should see me off stream and I roll around like a depressed person. I don't talk to anyone like i'm so different It's so strange. I believe you literally so strange Yeah, that's because twitch is a wonderful Twitch makes people feel comfortable, right? That's what's so beautiful Like there's there's something truly beautiful about like twitch in this community Like I know that we talk about toxicity and stuff like that But I I think there's something about you know, being a shy person who has trouble talking to people And like but like you're one of us like it's about us Yeah, it's us right? It's not about the normies Yeah, it's about it's about us great twitch has always been that way man twitch has always been this like this like Amazing community in this corner of the internet. That's like such like a like a tight knit community, you know Yep, it's not like youtube or any other like platforms where it just seems so Like spread out and like just not as like It's like not a family, you know like twitch feels like it's like They're the boys dude, like half these guys have been riding with me since like 2011 you know what I mean? Like they've been watching and like playing the same shit like they It's just it's truly amazing. Like what has actually happened if you look at it like that, you know, yeah Yeah, which is cool Yeah, which I I I really really respect those people man like any of you guys that have been like oh geez and like i've seen The ups and downs and all that stuff like I appreciate you guys man, and I could truly You mean a lot to me man and like without you guys I probably wouldn't I'd be fucked like let's just say that I wouldn't be I wouldn't have had any outlet for all my shit. So thank you One last thing i'll leave you with okay, so this is karma. Yeah So in my mind, so I think that life has dealt you a very crappy hand But you've got a couple of aces in there You were alive at the right time, right? Like this didn't happen to you like 30 years ago Before there was twitch and wow and before you could be a good mage like we are alive today Yeah Like we're being a good mage involved dungeons of dragons, which is amazing and I love but also it's like you know So like like I think that you know, it's my firm belief and this may be a belief that's out of fear that Life gives us challenges and sometimes life gives us a lot of like shitty stuff But life also gives us the capacity like gives us the tools to do what we need to To like overcome the challenges that we face So sure you can feel alone because of your brother and your mom and your dad and stuff like that And also you happen to be alive at a time where there are like thousands of people who can be your virtual family And do genuinely care about you Yeah, and and so it's kind of like weird and so it's our job to sort of you know, not I mean we can be upset about oh, you know, it's unfortunate this happened Absolutely, you're allowed to be upset and grief and stuff like that But like like it's not about black and white right? It's not that you're fucked or that you're lucky It's that both of those things are true at the same time That there's david and there's mitch and mitch is like this glorious guy who's like, you know doing this stuff on on twitch And then there's david who's kind of like, you know when he shows up like twitch doesn't like it and stuff like that It's about putting it all together It's about like being a whole person and understanding there are parts of your life that suck and there are things about your life that you're Really grateful for And it's been really awesome to hear you express genuine appreciation for the person that you are in your circumstances And also to be like to see you be so at the same time like broken because of like how Messed up your life is and how alone you are that you can be both of those things at the same time And that's really what life is And the goal of becoming a monk is to be able to sit with both of those things That's where peace comes from It's not the sunlight. It's not the shadow It's twilight Right by stephanie meyer Feels like it's like that No, but And that's what I want to help you do right it's it's to face the bad and accept the good like both of them It's not either or it's not being perfect. It's not about being successful. It's about the highs and the lows. That's what life is And that's the journey that like everyone wants to see because that's the journey that they can relate to Good breath good sigh Thoughts questions No, I I really think talking to you is a next level experience for me I've never actually had any type of therapy that's done really anything for me and it's very strange to give someone else full control over like your emotions like I feel like you could just like Give me like a weird pressure point and just drop me and render me useless for a week. Like I don't know Yeah, so the reason this works really well is because you know disclaimer it's not therapy Okay, and secondly, one of my teachers once told me that I should use my power for good and not evil Yeah, well you make me realize things that I kind of already knew but it's like you just like make it so right there in my face. I have to like see it, you know Yeah, well, that's what I'm here for And I also had one more question. Yeah before we go sure sure, so i've How what is the best way of dealing with like negativity and like people that are just negative, right? Like I really struggle with this because I always have this like weird Righteous way of like wanting like the truth or like, you know Karma or whatever you want to call it, right? Like I get carried up in these dumb little mind games with like irrelevant situations and i'm wondering how You would go about that. Yeah, so I've got kind of a weird, you know nature analogy because we're talking about meditation and stuff so What i'm what i'm envisioning is a gigantic wave Or a wave that's hitting you right? That's their negativity You're there's kind of there's a kind of like swept upness Does that make sense to what you're describing? So how do you withstand a wave? You just dive through it You can dive through it. Absolutely. That's not what I was thinking, but that does work That's what I do. Yeah So I I think in my case like I just have my feet on the ground Just let it hit you. Yeah, absolutely right. So dive through it. Let it pass through you Let it let it get past you like the important thing is to be stable within yourself So I think one thing is that if you engage with them, it doesn't work. Well Right. That's like trying to push the wave away Yeah, I have this weird thing where I just get so like I want to like engage and I want to like I want to Like show them that they're wrong, you know, it's like it's so bad. So toxic So that's that's ego, right? So you want to convince them that they're wrong. What you need to do is dive through it Yeah, so you need to move past them not like don't try to stop the wave. Don't try to fight the way because that doesn't work The other way to think about it is like, you know, how do you get like if I have a bucket of water? Or like let's say I have like a bathtub like how do I get the water to be still and calm down? If it's like Splat like splish splash wait time, right? Absolutely, right? So the more that you try to like if I try to force all the waves down if I like see a wave I'm like no you stay still this water needs to stay still this water needs to stay and that's what you do you engage with them? And then it's like trying to force water to be still Your dude your analogies are always spot on I don't understand Yeah So so what you let them do is let it wash over you So like understand that if you want to show them that something if you want to show them That's coming from you. It's not actually coming from them. They're hitting a cord with you that you don't want to be true Right, so like some people have criticized me and I think the best way to handle criticism is to accept it people like I'm cool with criticism. I get more so annoyed with like certain people that have these like uh Super like I I could get into it. So that's a lot But I have this weird thing that like attracts me to like negativity and like it's like it's like a continuing theme in my life So I can't understand Yeah, so I mean I'd say as best as you can dive through it, right? So let it wash over you like those people are negative So take stock in kind of who you are and like understand that you can't convince someone so like mitch You know, so you were earlier saying how what I do is special and helpful, right? Yeah, am I trying to convince you of anything? No I don't think so. I think you're just trying to learning Yeah, but how are you learning without me convincing you of anything? Because you're unlocking the knowledge that's already there Okay So I think that's kind of the approach that you've got to take for them, right whether they want to see What is there is up to them? You can help them along But if they're in a place where they don't want to see it, you've got to like let that move past you let them wash over you Understand that trolls are going to be trolls like that's what like You know, you can't like that's what's going to happen Like you can't change a troll's mind like they have to want to learn And over time like the people that you can engage with I think it's about ego and stuff like that I think this is actually worth like kind of a full conversation. So if we yeah No, I would love to dive into this Yeah because this is so so I think I think dealing with negativity from other people and sort of this idea that you want to show them and Teach them like how it is and like, uh, yeah like yeah I have this weird like self-righteous like this thing in me where i'm just like I have to prove them wrong, you know Like yeah, I know i'm right. I know i'm right and like yeah, and I just And I just get so fucking carried away with it. I ended up being losing myself in those kind of situations as well You know Yeah, it's it's a really common problem Especially like I don't know if you've used this thing called the internet but it's full of people Yeah, self-righteous and right and want to show other people how they're wrong Yeah, yeah I mean it's you know, I check out the internet because there are people who are full of that thing there Um, there there's like there are these so the internet has all these different websites, but they're basically all the same So like there's this website called youtube that has videos and people argue with each other about who's right And then there's this website called reddit Where they post something so they post a link and then like right beneath it. They argue about who's right And and there's just basically lots of these things called websites and they're all about arguing you even have like reviews of like Restaurants where they argue with each other about whether the food is good or the food is bad um, and so it's it's I mean there's a whole you know billions of people out there who are just like you and Trying to teach everyone that they're Wrong and we're self-righteous So, yeah, we could talk about it next time but I I think in short You know in short as best as you can try to implement that imagery of just like dive through it Yeah, like the monk wouldn't care right like the monk would just like let it happen Not get all and developed in like my own ego of like trying to like prove someone wrong or whatever It doesn't matter in the end of the day, right? Like So i'll leave you with one last thought. Okay So when you can when you should convince someone is when you were righteous, but you are not talking about being righteous You're talking about being self-righteous So that's ego Okay. So what is righteous? That's when you're completely unbiasedly looking at something right? That's what it's not about you It's about them or about it's about service. It's about the righteousness to do what is right Yes, but I think what you are talking about use the right word because I think you're you're self-righteous. That's about ego Yes, so should you try to convince other people of things? Absolutely. I mean that's I spend a lot of my time doing that But I do so when when I actually am when my cause is just and it's not about me. It's about them Okay, right. So if you're trying Oh, yeah, just like okay. Yeah, that makes sense for sure So like what if you're like so certain Like you can teach people like you can teach someone like are you like, you know, you're right, right? Like you're like so sure of it. That's still self-righteous, right? No, not necessarily So I think the issue is about like what's important to you are you serving a cause Are you trying to prove them wrong and prove you right? A little bit of both Yeah, so I think that needs to be separated because I do think that like, you know, sometimes i'll I mean Sometimes i'll take a hard line with people And you know, I tend to be nice on stream and usually i'm a nice guy but Sometimes if my blood gets up and I think that there's injustice being done, I will Use my power to destroy others That's kind of how I feel yeah, and I I think that that's okay Okay, I I know but you know, I I think it's hard. So you have to have your ego in check and in your case I don't think yours is very healthy right now. So oh, yeah First Yeah, for sure. All right. Well, thank you. Dr. K. Okay, appreciate it, man You're very welcome. Mitch strong work today Yeah, definitely definitely you are Yeah, definitely getting somewhere with whatever the hell's going on good, but I appreciate it too Take care of I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Have a good one, man. You too Okay So Um That was fun I really enjoy talking to mitch Um Yeah, no i'm not gonna so this is the thing right so like if you actually think about it like Seeing into people's emotions. We just got it. I got to clear the air here So right so like seeing into people's emotions and understanding who they are is also like what's used by like super super toxic Narcissistic people like when you get someone who can understand things and is like narcissistic and predatory they like destroy people so You know, but sometimes I think if like there's injustice being done in the world like you should Like you know, you should stand up and fight and and do what you want like do do what's right And help other people Um, okay, so So guys this is fun What we're gonna do. Um, I just want to thank everyone for coming on again and uh watching mitch um I think uh You know, I I hope some of that stuff was resonating with y'all Um You know, I think a lot of the stuff that mitch struggles with is actually true for a lot of people right? So like we wall off our emotions So a couple takeaways when we have hurt we tend to wall it off and create like A version of ourselves we create like this character and we try to be that character Because being that character is better than like being like the hurt version But the goal is to actually take those walls down and like let that hurt out and process it so you can be free of it Because the the thing about walling off your negative emotions is it's like you're encumbered Like, you know like you guys know like in an rpg when I don't know if this happens This doesn't happen in wow because you're like capped by space But you know some like rpgs will have encumbrance so you can be like way down and it gives you a movement penalty And that's what walled off emotions are like it's like you're feeling like way down and sure you can still play the game But it's like kind of hard Yeah, you're you're can't fast travel like you're just gimped in some way, right? So the goal is to actually be like a complete person and being a complete person is about Letting all that negativity out and kind of dealing with it and accepting it And then you'll kind of feel better about yourself. You'll be more at peace Like that's where peace comes from and understand that peace is different from fun So what mitch has done is he's walled all that off and then like in order to compensate for the negative emotions He rides highs, right? Like he's like super super fun and clowny and all that kind of stuff So he like has this inflated positivity To kind of balance out that like walled off negativity when instead what you want is to like actually have both of those kind Of things be there at the same time It's like sweet and savory and spicy