 So the more that we sort of create this idealized version of ourselves and the more that we move towards it, oh, I'm not going to make it. I'm not going to make it. I'm not going to make it. Oh, my God. Will I make it? Will I make it? Will I make it? What if I don't live up to those expectations and I finally make it? Oh, thank God. Relief. Can someone explain this? My toxic trait is that I don't feel any sense of accomplishment after achieving something, just a mild sense of relief that it's done. So this is something that is unfortunately very, very common, where we have things to do. It's important to do those things. And you could even argue that doing those things is an achievement, right? So for example, completing a class and passing your final exam is an achievement. I should be proud of myself for finishing the semester. Yay for me. But that's not how we feel, right? All we feel is relief. There's not any sense of accomplishment or achievement, even after we kind of have worked really hard towards it. So what we're going to do is explore a little bit. We're going to explore kind of three hypotheses about why this happens, how we get into this way, and also a couple of things to do about it. Now the first thing that I want to talk about is we've got to be very careful about this phrase right here. Toxic trait. So oftentimes when we struggle with something, we will assume that this is not something that is actionable. Like a trait or an aspect of my personality is not changeable or malleable. But it turns out if we look into what is the differential diagnosis, and I don't mean really medically, but I'm using that term, what are the different reasons why someone would work really hard, achieve something, and feel no sense of achievement? We'll discover why you may fall into this. And if we can discover why people fall into this, we can actually start to change it. So let's talk a little bit about it. Why does working hard not give you anything except for a sense of relief? Why can't you feel an achievement of any sort? So the first thing that we're going to talk about is being stressed. So I want you all to imagine a scenario. Let's say I've got a final exam coming up. As I'm moving towards the final exam, I feel really, really stressed out and I have to do it. And the stress actually motivates me to study. So this is a very common experience, where, oh my God, okay, final exam is two weeks away, and no big deal. I don't really feel a whole lot of stress. A week goes by, I start to feel a little stressed. I haven't started studying yet. Oh my God, it's going to be too late. I don't want to cram. I don't want to, I need to get an A. My GPA really needs an A. The stress starts creeping in. And as the stress starts creeping in, the unhealthy coping mechanisms to deal with stress start creeping in. As I become anxious, oh my God, I'm feeling anxious. What should I do? Let me watch something on YouTube and distract myself. Eight days go by, nine days go by. Now the exam is five days away. Oh my God, the stress increases. And now it's so powerful that it breaks through my distractions. And now I start cramming. Stress, stress, stress, stress. I'm studying, studying, studying, studying, studying, cram, cram, cram, cram, cram. Finish the exam. How are you going to feel? Yay, I'm so proud of myself for procrastinating for nine days and then cramming and feeling stressed out and waiting till the last minute and like, yay, I can be so proud of that. No, you can't. All you're going to feel is relief. Thank God it's over. So the first thing to understand is that if stress is what's motivating our action, how on earth are we supposed to feel a sense of accomplishment when it's done? So think about the times in your life when you feel accomplished. Stress can have something to do with it, but it's usually like something that you set out to do. Does that make sense? So the first thing to understand is that if you're motivated through stress and procrastination, the natural thing is that you're going to end up with a sense of relief instead of a sense of accomplishment. Does that make sense? What are you expecting? So other people, you may look around with other people who are like high-fiving each other because yeah, like I crushed the exam. Fantastic. Those people weren't super stressed before they started the exam. So even though you studied hard and you should feel proud of yourself, the question is what was the driver of the original motivation? What is driving you to complete the task? And your internal motivation is going to determine whether you end up feeling relief or accomplished. Even if your actions are the same, it's not how much you study. It's not how hard you study. It's what's in here when you are studying. Are you putting it off? That's the first consideration. Next thing to think a little bit about is something called the shame gap. So we talked about this recently, but this is essentially the idea of a should. So in our mind, we have an idea of who we can be. So there's Al Oake and then there's Dr. K. Oh my God. And one of them is like a degenerate, lazy person who struggles to accomplish things on a daily basis. And one of them is like, Oh my God, brilliant person on the internet. Right? That's idea. It's not real. I'm not saying that I am brilliant at all. I am on the internet, however, but I want you all to notice that we all construct ideal versions of ourselves. And this is especially true. Like I've seen this a lot in people who are, you know, like South Asian, East Asian, things like that. Or if you grow up with parents who have a bunch of shoulds, you should do this. You should do this. You should do this. Oh, look, you are so smart. You should become Dr. You will be very good doctor one day. And so we have the sense of an ideal self. And then there's the real us over here. And the difference between what we know we can be or what we should be and what we are is where shame lives. This is the shame gap between this and this. Now, here's the tricky thing. If this gap exists and this identity over here exists and based on all the things that you should do, if you ever reach that, are you going to feel accomplished? Probably not. You think you are. But let's understand this carefully, right? Because who feels accomplished? If my parents say, Oh, I look, you're a doctor. You should become doctor one day. That's so good. You're going to be so smart. And I become a doctor one day. Who feels accomplished? Do I feel accomplished? No, because it wasn't my goal to begin with who feels accomplished is my parents who brag to everyone that I became a doctor. You'll get that. It's not even my goal. And it's like, thank God, my parents are leaving me alone. Thank God I didn't disappoint them. Thank God I lived up to my potential potential. And I became a doctor and I accomplished what I was supposed to do. But it's never my goal. So I'm not going to feel any sense of accomplishment. All I'm going to feel is relief. I did what I was supposed to do. And they're out there celebrating. Oh, we're going to throw you the biggest party. Celebrating over going to throw you the biggest party to celebrate. And it's like, I'm just glad I survived medical school. I don't even know if I want to be doing this right now. So the second reason that we feel relief instead of accomplishment is because a lot of times when we're doing stuff, they're not even our goals. We're just doing things that we should do. We don't actually care about it. And if you're someone who falls into this, it's not like you never feel accomplished. You feel accomplished when things are actually important to you. You just don't feel accomplished when you do things that you should be doing because it's someone else's goal. They're the ones that feel proud. So in that shame gap, in that idealized version of yourself, in living up to should, we sort of fall into this trap of like opening ourselves up to relief is kind of the best you can feel. And let's forget, by the way, that oftentimes when we construct idealized versions of yourself, this person is perfect. So even if you go all the way, all you're doing is living up to the expectation. You're not exceeding it. It's nothing to be proud of because you're just doing what's expected of you. Oh, I look, you're so smart, become doctor. So then there's no, it's like what's expected. It's like the minimum. You'll get that. So the more that we sort of create this idealized version of ourselves and the more that we move towards it, oh, I'm not going to make it. I'm not going to make it. I'm not going to make it. Oh my God, will I make it? Will I make it? Will I make it? What if I don't live up to those expectations and I finally make it? Oh, thank God relief. I made it. I wasn't sure I was going to. So now you've accomplished something that objectively is an accomplishment. Your parents are telling everyone in the world, they're so proud. I'm so proud of you beta. Right? And like, you're just like, thank God. Second reason. Third reason, this is kind of interesting. It has to do with imposter syndrome. So this happens to people who have imposter syndrome. So let's do a quick review of what imposter syndrome is. So let's say you're a doctor. Let's do a quick review of what imposter syndrome is. So people who have imposter syndrome feel like they don't belong, feel like something funny has happened. The universe has, they got lucky and they wound up somewhere where they really don't belong. So I experienced this for a little bit when I started my internship at Massachusetts General Hospital. So MGH is one of the best hospitals in the U.S. etc. Harvard Medical School teaching affiliate, number one in U.S. News and World Report. Every year or two, they like trade, number one through four, just like swap. And so I showed up at MGH, I remember being an intern, and like meeting my fellow interns and holy crap, were they amazing. Like I was just stunned by how capable they are. And they're like, how did I end up here? Like, this is weird. Like, I don't belong here. Right? So this is what happens with imposter syndrome, is that people feel like they don't belong even though they do. So as we've studied imposter syndrome more, we've discovered a couple of really, really important things about the cognitive structure of people with imposter syndrome. There's one really important trait about imposter syndrome, is that when someone with imposter syndrome achieves something, they attribute to that success to things outside of them. So if I wound up there, it's because I got lucky. And when they look at other people's achievements, they attribute other people's achievements to their effort. This person is here because they worked really hard and they're really smart, but I'm here because I just got lucky. And so if you actually take people with imposter syndrome and you ask them when they win, when they objectively win, when they get accepted, or they do a good job at work, or things like that, and you ask them, how do you feel about yourself? They actually don't feel good. They think they just skirted by. They think another day has gone by and I wasn't found out. All they feel is relief anytime there's an accomplishment because they don't actually think because remember, they think they're an imposter. So they don't think they're capable of the accomplishment. Does that make sense? So their lack of confidence, if I don't believe that I belong here and I'm an imposter and I succeed at something, what is the reason for that success? It's not because I actually did a good job. It's because people haven't noticed yet that I don't belong. So what we find in imposter syndrome is that they have difficulty taking credit for their actions. And so what happens is they get very, very stressed out anytime they accomplish something because they're like, oh my God, like, what do people figure out? What if my true colors show? What if my brain stops working or my ADHD takes control? And then like everything comes crumbling down around me. Thank God everything didn't come crumbling down around me. Relief. So the key thing to understand about this is it's not a trait. There are absolutely elements of your cognition and those elements of your cognition can be, we've shared with all three different things. The first is that if stress is your primary motivator towards action, you're not going to feel achievement at the end. You're going to feel relief because the stressor is over. Right? So if an exam is stressing you out, if you take the exam away, you're going to have stress relief. We don't say stress achievement. We say stress relief. It's like in the words, we all understand these concepts. It'd be such a load off my chest if I didn't have to take final exam has been canceled. Oh, thank God. All of your stress would go away. So if stress is your motivator, then all you're signing up for is relief, not accomplishment. Second thing, the shame gap and the idealized self and all of the shoulds. If you're working towards a particular goal or achievement for the sake of living up to a should or other people's expectations, don't expect a whole lot of sense of accomplishment or achievement. Right? Because it's not actually your goal. You're just hoping you can live up to it. You're going to end up with relief. And the third thing is that we see this kind of pattern in people who have imposter syndrome because they don't actually credit themselves for their own actions. They attribute their successes to factors outside of their control. Oh, the professor just likes me. They gave me a pass. It's not that I deserved an A. Right? They don't, you don't give yourself credit. And when you look at the accomplishments of other people, you give them credit. So what do we do about this? The first thing is that we have to start looking for the first issue in terms of stress based motivation. As long as we're motivating ourselves out of stress, the most that we're going to feel is relief. Then you may say, OK, but then how do I motivate myself out of something besides stress? I know it's going to sound kind of weird. It's a bit simplistic. There's more depth into this. So we talk a lot about motivation and stuff in the upcoming guide so that we go into more detail. But this is the kind of thing where if you're stressed out about a test, take a step back for a second. All you're thinking about is, oh my God, I got to pass the test, pass the test, final exam is coming up, final exam is coming up. Why the hell are you in the class to begin with? Why the hell, let's assume you're a university student, why did you go to college to begin with? Why did you pick this major? Why are you in this class? Take a step back and start to think a little bit about the choices that you made that got you here. And what is the point of this? Right. And this is a reframe that I try to do with medical students, not so much anymore because I don't actively teach as much. But, you know, I used to do a ton, which is like helping them understand why the hell are you in medical school? It's not to get an A. No one cares whether you get an A. One day you could be riding an elevator with a pregnant lady and the power could go out, there could be an earthquake, you may have to deliver a baby in an elevator like the movies. At that point, you don't get to say, I'm sorry, I got to see an OB guy and I don't remember how to deliver babies. You don't get to say that. You're in medical school, who cares whether you get an A or C? You better learn how to deliver a frigging baby because one day you may need to. So if you want to stop being motivated by stress, start to take a step back, do some introspective work and ask yourself, why the hell am I here? Why am I taking philosophy 101? Because it's a requirement for my degree. I don't even care about philosophy. But this is an opportunity for me to learn about all kinds of things that are not my degree. So this is the last chance that I'm going to get formal education where someone is responsible for teaching me all this stuff. And then when I'm 30 or 40 and I want to understand stoicism or people are talking about this philosophy or postmodernism, stoicism, all these different Nietzsche and all these different people, this is my chance to actually learn about that stuff. And if you can create that frame shift, you will feel more accomplished at the end of it. So, you ain't living this life for the sake of other people. And if you are, that's why all you're going to feel is relief. Why are you living this life? So forget about the perfect self because this is where you are and focus on taking this step, this step, this step. Because here's the thing. When this is what I want to be and this is where I am, when I take one step forward, I'm not there. I'm not there. I'm not there. Even going halfway feels like a failure. If you go halfway, you feel like a failure, even though you moved halfway. Whereas if you're starting from here, one step, two step, three step, four step, this is a success. This is a failure. Do you all get that? Moving halfway to an ideal goal feels like a failure. Moving five steps forward from where you are feels like a success. It's all about attitude. It's all about the conception of should. So let go of it all. Accept where you are. This is what when people say like, oh, live in the present. This is what they're talking about. Last thing is if you fall into the imposter syndrome camp where you give other people credit for their actions, but you make excuses for your successes. Ask yourself one simple question. This is going to be the start of your journey. Why can't I give myself credit? What feels so bad about saying, hey, I actually did a decent job, or I am, I do belong here. Why can't you give yourself credit? I can't tell you just give yourself credit. Start with that question. And then what you can do is like on a piece of paper, and there's studies that show that this actually helps with people with imposter syndrome. Write down the things to make two columns, things that you got lucky with, and things that you did. And just fill out both columns. We're not saying that there aren't things that you got lucky with, but there's something there that you contributed. Even if your teacher likes you, you still show it up to class every day. You still studied for 15 hours for the test, things like that. So start to jot down and really think about what were the contributions that you did make. We're not saying that that's what's responsible. That's way too advanced. You can't do that. No, no, no, no, no, no. But let's at least acknowledge that you had some hand in this. And what gets in the way of taking that credit? Acknowledge both. We're not saying that you aren't lucky. You're lucky, but it's not like you were sitting on your ass the whole time. You did something. And at least be able to acknowledge that. And as you do that more and more, you'll start to be able to take a little bit of pride. As you take pride, you'll start to build confidence. As you start to build confidence, you will stop making excuses for yourself, for your successes, actually. That's what's really weird, right? We always think about making excuses for ourselves in terms of bad behaviors. What we don't realize is that people with imposter syndrome make excuses for their successes. They don't give themselves credit for their successes. So it's kind of odd that sometimes we do fall into this situation where any time we accomplish something, we don't feel a sense of accomplishment. It's just relief. Now, you've got to be very careful because some people may naturally conclude that this is a toxic trait of mine. It is unchangeable. It is a part of who I am. No, no, no. Thankfully, that's not true. There are a lot of different things that can contribute to it. The first is stress-based motivation just leads to relief at the end. So start to motivate yourself in different ways. It's all introspective work. The work is going to be the same. The amount of studying that you do is going to be the same. It's all about the attitude. It's all about in here. Because whether you feel relief or accomplishment, whether you got an A on the test and you feel relief or accomplishment, the feeling is in here. The A is out there. You all get that? So it's all internal work. Second thing is abandon the shoulds and the ideals because as long as you're trying to live up to something, you're never going to feel accomplished. The most that you're going to do is live up to it. It's moving from negative 100 to zero. Pride happens once you cross the zero mark. So what we need to do is reset our scale and move zero down to negative 100. Then every step forward becomes a victory. That may sound like, oh my God, that sounds terrible. Isn't that cheating? No, that's actually how it is. If my goal is to lose 20 pounds and I lose 10 pounds, that's progress. That's something to be proud of. I lost 10 pounds. We don't think about it that way. Once again, in here. Last thing is imposter syndrome, which unfortunately people with imposter syndrome don't give themselves credit for their successes. And so ask yourself, why can't I give myself credit for my effort? Three approaches and three options for solutions. Hopefully it helps. Beautiful. Makina is saying they're not accomplishments because anyone can do it. You're correct. That's what your mind tells you. So why is it that you cheer other people who do what anyone can do? All right. There's a double standard there. Great point. That's exactly what the mind says. It's exactly what the mind says. So when I say ask the question, why can't you give yourself credit? Oh, because anyone can do it. So does that mean that it doesn't require effort? All right. It's kind of interesting. It comes from the imposter syndrome. It comes from the lack of confidence. It tries to reinforce your lack of confidence because if anyone can do it, it's nothing to be proud of. It's tricky. Very tricky. I don't blame the person for saying that. I think it's actually a beautiful comment that illustrates exactly what the mind does. It's a beautiful point. Brilliant observation. And it happens to be incomplete.