 Who hurt you so bad that there is no way to apologize for what they did there's no way to fix that hurt Where did you learn in the core of your being that there are some wounds that will never be healed Holy shit So sky tell me a little bit about first of all, thank you for coming on And so tell me a little bit about what we're talking about today and how twitch chat and I can help you if anything What are you talking about today? Well Honestly, don't even really know because I you know, I Guess depression sucks, right? I get everybody sure kind of feels that an anxiety is terrible. Sure There isn't anything really like Specific I guess I wouldn't really even know what to target. Okay, fine Is it okay? So we I exchanged a couple of DMS with you and and is it okay if I share some of those? Because I think that may give us a direction. Yeah, okay Yeah, you kind of said like hey like I have maybe some depression or anxiety But but I even feel like the problems are like unfixable. There's something about this that like that's impossible to be fixed right and I think a lot of people feel that way. So if it's okay with you, can we just start there? Sure. What do you think is unfixable? Yeah, go for it. Sorry. Oh, yeah Also, like yeah, I'm a completely open book so I won't struggle to talk about any topic. Okay. Thank you for that man you know, I Guess like I Just feel that at this point in my life that I've corrupted so many people in my like close friend group or my friend group in general that The habits that I've picked up to survive are so toxic that I don't know if they could be like etched out of my mind and it makes me feel like I Just I guess I'm just gonna be trash now like, you know, yeah, you made it a bit hard got it just suck now Yeah, so if it's okay with you, that's what we're gonna talk about Okay, cuz that sounds that sounds, you know way more Real than depression and anxiety, right? so somewhere along the way like you've realized that you have some kind of toxic patterns and that they're so In grained they're so they're actually so deeply within you that you're fucking your sol yeah, I am I I actually think that I Think I'm having one of the most toxic people on earth. I'm not even kidding. Okay, it's bad Why why do you think that can we talk about that? Is that okay? Sure. Yeah. Yeah Well, I Don't I don't naturally like have empathy. I'm not really good at that. Sure and What does that mean not being good at empathy? Like I Just don't like I Whenever whenever I need something from anyone no matter what it is it's like my mind goes into this mode where it's just like let me get something from someone and then like We'll save them later. We'll help later, but I don't even know if I even believe that and then I Get what I need and then I'm fine. But then the aftermath is me just feeling shitty about it later, but I don't know It's weird What why do you feel shitty about it? Well, normally I don't feel guilt for many things not too many things like I you know Obviously like I'm a person that doesn't really live with regrets if I do something bad It's like in that moment that I did that thing bad. It is what I wanted to do so it's hard for me to regret it because it was like well that was my choice that I made there, but I feel bad about it because like all these people that they just want to help me and then I take their help and I just I Just I just piss it away and then I'm back in the same problems over and over and over again and that's why I feel like I'm corrupting people like these people are Giving me their hearts and their minds and sometimes their wallets and they just there's there's no return They're just trusting something happens and then nothing happens. How do you know that nothing? Oh, okay. How do you know that nothing happens? um, I look at my YouTube channel and I I see like like a Devoid of content and what's worse is that when I do make content It's either half-assed or it's me crying about something or it's like a like a sponsored video and I'm not really creating the thing that Put me on the platform in the first place and then you know I'm in the same situations because I'm not actually making the proper changes in my life I'm just taking what they give me just to feel comfortable for even another week It's not good at all. Okay, sky I think Okay, I'm just gonna think for a second, okay, that's fine. Yeah Okay, so let me ask you this so you say that you're you don't you're not empathic right So a lot of things you just tossed out a lot and I thank you for being an open book because there's some things To me that I can't put the puzzle pieces together and I'd like your help with that So you say that you're not empathic but at the same time it seems very clear to me that You feel like you're corrupting people and You wouldn't feel that way and like you feel like you're kind of letting people down Yeah, right I mean big time really like yeah But but if you were truly not empathic then you wouldn't have the feeling of like disappointing people That's that's true. However, I'm confused in in myself because I don't know if I actually care about That or rather I know that I'm could get canceled No, I think you care about that because it's so here. Here's the conflict. Okay, so one is you take from others and You don't live up to expectations. They invest in you and you let them down right and Then you have some feeling because you talked about feeling guilty But then like 30 or 60 seconds later You said I don't regret my decisions because I acknowledge that that's what I want in the moment and that's what I needed I made the choice that I made I'm gonna own up to my choice and I don't regret it and I think when when I put my head in the mindset of someone like that I can imagine that you feel like that is a lack of empathy Yes, right I Would think so. Yeah, so I think that is actually something that you do to protect yourself From the vast amount of empathy that you have. Oh Damn yeah, I mean I'm listening right so let's just let's just let's go through the daisy chain Okay, like we're gonna connect the dots So dot number one is that people are investing men people care about me people do things for me I ask them for things and they give me things Right. That's not number one Dot number two is I feel like I'm letting them down. I feel guilty I feel like they're giving me all this stuff and I'm quote quote pissing it away Okay What are you feeling I'm about to get bodied what does that mean Means um You're good and I'm pretty sure that I'm already thinking about things a little different so I just know that I Playfully think of everything in my life as A contest it's really harmless Like if I get full from a burger, I'll be like damn that burger just bodied me or I just got you know I got beat by the burger, right? So it's like it seems in this discussion You're gonna open me up to a lot of things that I believe are healthy and good Which are things that I haven't considered so in my head playfully I'm just like I'm about to get absolutely like my mind about to get shit on which is good It's a good thing. I really need to be taken down a lot of notches and I don't think that's your goal Just saying that I think that Hearing no accepting another no, no, no, you don't need to be taken down a lot of notches You need to be pumped up a lot of notches Okay, we're gonna get to this okay, we're gonna get to it, okay so You take from other people you feel guilty for taking because you piss away what they give you and Then that hurts Right, yes. Yeah does it Yeah, yeah does I mean especially with like some of the people being really important to me so it's like Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so if it hurts that means you're empathic actually Right, yeah So so then comes the protection So this is where you get the idea that you're not empathic because then your mind tries to protect you it steps in and says You know what this hurts so I don't regret my decisions because if I don't regret my decisions, then I don't have to feel hurt Like they're a bunch of suckers like they know I don't deliver and they give anyway and So like that's on them. Like I make my choices. I live by it. I'm transparent with them. They know what they're getting themselves into Is that what you tell yourself I don't I don't think that there I don't think that they're suckers. I think in the moment that I take their help I really do believe that I can make a change and make a difference but then The feeling fades like before I go to bed and then it's just the same Cycle of okay. Gotcha. So so apologies if I over spoke there, maybe not that they're suckers, but but that you know there's a certain amount of like if You tell yourself that you don't regret your decisions Then like if you if you do away with regret like guilt goes with it Does that make sense? Yes so like when you tell yourself that then it's like ah, I don't have to feel guilty because like this is just who I am and Then and then like I mean, I think you're actually deeply empathic and I think you're very worried about what you're doing to people Because you use the word corrupt Like you feel like you're like that's not a sociopath doesn't think that they're corrupting anyone They just don't give a shit right Like you're concerned you're concerned about what you're doing to people Yes, um, I Am definitely concerned Yeah, I mean I guess that that just I just I'm thinking about this a lot so take your time never really I think the only the only reason why I keep I was like diagnosed with antisocial disorder when I was 15 and so Ever since then I've kind of had this idea. It was like, okay. Well, I'm defective. So And many of the things I think about are just like not normal I can definitely level with you on the empathy thing and I do care but I Don't know my mind is just kind of okay, that's okay. We're here sky so we're gonna work through that. Okay? You need a minute? No, no, I'm good. Okay, so So I think that I can understand why someone would have diagnosed you they wouldn't have diagnosed you with antisocial personality Disorder would have been conduct disorder if you're 15 But I think that there's a part of you that feels like you take advantage of people and that you manipulate people Oh, I mean I Know it. Yeah, so so I think that's that's what people Think of that makes you kind of antisocial or like sociopathic because you take advantage of other people And then you have the best of intentions and you wake up the next day and you don't honor your things So that's kind of like where the antisocial kind of stuff comes. Okay? Yeah, I have the best of intentions for what I'm preserving like It means that like Like I've been The lifestyle I live is what requires all this help which is a lifestyle of using what now little money I have to support all of my best friends living with me and So it's like I've done that ever since the beginning of YouTube even a little before I worked like three years I've been doing this for like three years And so it's like I've done that ever since the beginning of YouTube even a little before I worked like three jobs Because I don't actually spend a lot of money on myself So I figured that you know when YouTube first started for me, and I was making a decent amount of money Besides giving it to my mom. I was like, oh, let's get a place like you guys are my friends And I don't want to live with strangers and this is fun But then of course like When you just baby them and you give them a bunch of stuff and you pay for all their bills They don't learn to grow and then eventually if I get depressed they can't help me So other people that I've met through my field would reach out and help But I would never really be honest about what they were helping which was again this terrible idea of Giving my friends everything and bringing them with me everywhere Yeah, so so let so sky that actually makes a lot of sense and we're gonna get into that in a second But the first thing is I'm gonna ask you when So when you think about someone who works three jobs and supports all of their best friends Do you think that that person is? lacks empathy and takes advantage of people um I Only feel that way because of what I get out of it It's like I'm not do I don't think that I'm doing it for their health because if I was doing it for their health I feel like I would have motivated them to be better and do more things Okay rather like I get more like okay I don't really want to be in a house by myself because I don't know how that would be So let me just fill it with people that I'm familiar with So what are you looking for there? I? Mean at this point. I don't even know I think I think right now. It's like I Have no idea what I'm looking so sky. Let me ask you something when did you learn that you are you disappoint other people? God damn I'm Okay, um geez probably when I was nine Yeah, that's when I knew I was a semen demon as soon as I knew I was gay I was like that's it like I'm my my family how my man is Indian like Guyanese and My dad is black and he'd be like if you're gay you cannot lay with another man here before he knew that any of us We're gay so it's like well There's step one and then I don't want to be a duck you know So you know I want to be a comedian instead of go to school just stuff like that Yeah So I think this is important because the common thread and like I wish I could like rewind on twitch and show you this But the common thread and I started like framing questions like this is it's all about not living up to expectations So you take from others and you assume? It's like axiomatic for you like you accept it as true that you're gonna Like what actually tears you up inside is that you're letting people down That like people are donating to your YouTube channel But you're just creating this shitty sponsored content that like aren't even though you stream every day And you're actually still making content They keep on supporting you you just get confused because you're just letting them down over and over and over again And you're taking advantage of them and you're corrupting them because why are they investing in you and you're just letting them down And they're just gonna get let down and like Why don't they stop and run away from you from your like corrupting influence because all you are is a disappointment Yes, oh my god. Yeah that write that on my grave, so so that feeling Comes from before all of this like this is very important to understand sky That truth it feels a truth to you that you're just you're just disappointment your disappointment walking around Right like that truth is colors everything all of this evidence that has been thrown your way where people are saying sky We like you we love you like so I rated you the other day, and I was watching your stream. It's fucking phenomenal man No It was it was great like people love you. You're a likable guy And and like you just can't sit with that right that thought And you want these people to come and you like you open your home to them because like you you want them to like not be disappointed by you Yes, I I see my patterns of what I do and it's like I Now now unfortunately, right because the pattern keeps going no matter how good you are There's gonna be diminishing returns if you keep trying to come back to content and then leave so like obviously, I'm sure that you've heard this a lot, but when it comes to viewership be it on Stream or on YouTube whatever you do it is so hard to like fight off the feeling that you're just a dying artist and a Lot of people if they if they fall off or their career goes sour I believe that many people might not understand what happened, but the worst thing for me is that I know what happened I know why it happened. I know what happened to right? So here's why it happened because you disappointed people because you didn't live up to expectations. You weren't good I didn't yeah true by not coming back and just Always saying I'm gonna come back and then I don't like but but so that's the thing sky So I want you to like really like stop and think about this for a second Okay, because you have this presumption at the beginning you have this cheat sheet which says the answer is that sky is gonna disappoint You've jumped to the end like you know like you've watched the climax of the movie like you've watched the end the big reveal is that sky disappoints And And so I think the biggest problem you say you need to get knocked down a couple of notches no man Like I think you need to understand that you have value and that you don't like sure at times all human beings disappoint other human beings, but Twitch is actually very good at sniffing out bullshit and if if What they see in you is not the the act that you make because I know I like I think that you're authentic I don't really have a persona I'm yeah And so but somewhere along the way like you recognize that you're not you're authentic on stream and at the same time like you don't Think you're good enough when everyone is telling you that you are Well because there's there's definitely like there's I guess it's not it's not tangible There's ways that we can determine Whether someone is a powerful content creator or not by way of their numbers and what they're pulling and who they're entertaining like yeah I'm I'm I could be really good, but if I'm I used to get you know like seven nine K streams on average and now I'm down to like 1.3 and it's like Scott but yeah, okay, so like that's fine So the the the assault on your ego from not being as big as you once were is Actually is completely there, but I think that that is a separate issue From the basic idea that you do not feel like you can live up to expectations Well, yeah, I mean people have given me so much shit that it's like Well better be Donald Glover or else What do you mean by give have given you so much shit? I? Mean I've been gifted and granted so much to just survive that You know if all these people are going out of their way to help me in the ways that they have They must believe in me in a way that I don't in myself, so it's like shit like That's the problem Because when they look at you they believe when I look at you I believe I Believe I don't get Right and you just don't get that but this is cool because just think about this first the second sky your problem is not That you don't create good content or that other people don't believe in you because like how can they believe in you? They can only believe in you because they see something like they don't just walk down the street and they're like, oh, there's some random guy Let's choose like I choose to believe in him. No, they see something and They're judges right like twitch twitch is like very judgmental and they know what they like and they know what they don't like and sometimes people try to manipulate like twitch and twitch doesn't respond well to that and They see something of value. They see something of real value, which is why they keep coming back The problem here is that like your success or failure has nothing to do with I mean on a very objective sense Of course it has something to do with your viewership and all that stuff But like I don't the core of your problem is that somewhere along the way you Decided or you learned that you can't live up to expectations and that at your core you're a fucking disappointment And until that goes away, the cool thing is if that can change all of your corruption all of your negative patterns They all stem from that So The corruption is only that I feel that I'll disappoint the people that believe in what I can do Sort of so I think the corruption is that like people are investing in you and they're gonna be hurt by it That there's no way that you can you can give them what they deserve Yeah, and so they're left And they're left tainted Because they they made the mistake to invest in something that is not worth investing in in something that's always gonna come up short And so they're hurt by association Right. I mean and and and you know, I don't even know if they think that it'll ever be a mistake Yes, so good because it's not about them sky It's about you. They don't know they don't even know that they're getting corrupted, right? They don't even know that they're like Like, you know, they're getting corrupted. They may not they have no clue and that's what makes you guilty that's where the guilt comes from because you're hurting them and they don't realize it and they keep coming back and they keep supporting you and You're hurting them and they keep coming back like a dog that's been kicked. They fucking keep coming back and you keep kicking Damn You gotta bring up the kick dog Except the ones that don't come back. Sure So I mean there there's a whole very real angle of like twitch streamers and like, you know size and subscribers But at the end of the day, I think this all comes down to this like basic idea that you have in your head that you're inevitably gonna disappoint Yeah To give you a specific example, I guess Something that I noticed about my youtube channel is that I have a very I had a very very unique Rise, I guess in that my channel it never blew up like the most subs I've ever gotten in one month was 40,000, right? And of course to people like oh, yeah blow up great, but it never went over that But I made videos every Friday and you know for three years I was consistent and I got to 900k and everything was whatever However along the way there have been channels that actually blew up the people that are getting 200k subs a day right and they're and they're straight to a million and they're superstars which At first I was jealous but that at the same time I was happy with what I had But it is hard to believe that you're destined for something great when you just see people Blow up in the ways that they do and it's like, oh well my blow up wasn't like that In fact, my blow up was rather slow does this mean that I'm just Slowly approaching, you know above mediocrity like I don't know It was it was really really hard to understand why I wasn't why I didn't get that treatment ever I guess Okay, so sky great point. So I want to point something out to you So it's my belief that there is the development of this belief about yourself, right which apparently happened when you were nine and Then there are all of the consequences of that belief and the way that you deal with those right, so for example, like there's the feeling guilty because you're not empathic and you're letting people down and then there's the Protective mechanism or the response in your mind, which is that you tell yourself that you don't regret your decisions Do you see how like there's like a cause and there's an effect? There's like a start and there's an end and so I think all the stuff about YouTube is all like responses To the complex with which you view the world You have a lens and then all the stuff on YouTube because I think that's all legitimate like you can feel you know Insufficient when you compare yourself to the meteoric rises of other youtubers and things like that I think all those feelings are really legitimate, but I think if you want it you're saying that there's something fundamental about you That's unfixable. I don't think that that thing I don't think the root of that thing is that you're not as successful of a youtuber is like other youtubers I think the root of that thing is where wherever you got this idea that like you can't live up to expectations and and So that if you want your patterns to change you've got to get to the bottom of that So tell me about go Yeah, no, I just I don't know where to start with that. Yeah. No. Yes You do because we already know where to start with it. Tell me about being nine. Oh God being nine Oh My god, there's a kid named Travis Barrios I got he choked out a guy named Joey Demas and everybody was freaking out and I just wanted to bang him like I have No idea what I was thinking, but it was crazy like that nine to me. That was that that was the truth like I It was a of course, you know, I'm telling myself I'm not gay but then again, you know, I'm just Walking around a cognate is and I I did pretty well in school at that time once I realized I was gay I was like, well, I'm not gonna get anywhere unless trade a's and I have to leave the house as soon as possible And I Had a lot of like friends normal friends everything was fine The only thing that was difficult was, you know home life with my family like moving back and forth and they're divorced and they're drama But if there's one thing my dad and mom kind of agreed on Individually is like being gay. Well, that might not be okay like That was hard to kind of maneuver and then and then my when I was around I think 11 my brother Literally read my sister's diary Found out she was a lesbian and then outed her So now yeah, so now I'm like god damn Nick like That made a lot of sense Made a lot a lot of things harder for me because of course she's getting chewed out and I'm just like how could you Alex? Like how could you even be that? But of course, I'm not telling her this. I'm just thinking in my mind Alex is your sister or your brother? Yes, my sister. My brother's name is Nick. He's the worst person Still yes, okay. Yes So do you oh go on so I mean I'm just you know, I think sky you do a you're a fantastic storyteller and I think you know you you talk about things in a very kind of larger-than-life sort of way and It sounds funny like you make it sound funny and I found myself like enjoying that story like Right. Thank you. Yeah, but that's not an enjoyable story. That story is fucking awful Yeah It's pretty bad. Yeah, I mean it's actually it's actually really really really bad But why do you think it's why are you able to talk about it in a way that's funny like does it hurt talk about it? No at this point now like okay, it's It's annoying like I mean I it it's annoying and it is actually genuinely fucked up We unbelief I'm not even kidding. But yeah, have you seen a therapist before by the way? Yeah, when I was 15, okay It was this lady I'll we just kept playing this stick game and you have to like put the sticks on Your hand and then you drop them and you can only pick out a certain color The fuck is that I don't know I mean she she was nice she would use that to ask me about home life while I was trying to pick up a green stick, I thought she was cheating but And then she would talk about like my stepdad and all those problems and shit like but that You know that only lasted like maybe a year and a half then I thought there I saw therapy again or my mom made me do it when I was like 19 and Then now I'm 29 and you're here Well, just to be clear this is not therapy sure right we're just chatting this is just chatting on Twitch This is just chatting. That's not therapy so but I Just want to so in a lot of ways sky It seems like you've grown and you've moved past this and you've become caught become confident in the person that you are like that's That's what I'm getting from you now That's a great thing to hear. I would say that I've I've moved past it, but the damage that's been done is just irreversible. And so it's like Yeah, so I agree that you've moved past it I agree that the damage has not been repaired I don't think it's irreversible. I think it's completely logical for you to think it's irreversible Right because you've moved past it without fixing it Did you watch the last interview? Okay, so I don't think it's irreversible I just don't think you've tried to fix it in the right way because what you've done is you've moved past it Instead of fixing it you moved on with your life with ever actually addressing the underlying issue and unless you've tried to do that, huh? Sorry, it's really bad though. Okay Do you want it? I mean I can I can tell you I'm only warning like even your viewers I actually don't even I should really get your page open, you know And actually I think that I didn't open your twitch page because I was absolutely terrified of chat but I Horrified actually, I just I can't even I feel like I was gonna be fragile. But anyway, I I usually give a trigger warning Because it's that bad. So I was like, I don't mind talking about it. I'm asking you though, like I can tell you but it's bad So so let me uh, okay. Let me so thank you for being Cautionary, I really appreciate that. I actually don't know how to navigate this kind of situation But let me actually first ask you this or you said you were afraid of being fragile Yes What do you mean by foiled again, um Cuz like, you know, everybody's like saying shit like oh, you know um Man up toughen up like don't let them like get thicker skin Like you don't you don't have to care about people think I care about what everyone thinks I don't care who you are. You could be an infant if you don't like me it hurts So it's like I and I'm not gonna lie to people like on Twitter. I'll be like, yeah. No, I care people that hate me I'll tweet at them. I'll be like, hey, let's talk even if it hurts. I want to learn something. That's my genuine approach So in twitch chat is like Twitch that the culture I'm sure you're aware to me I love twitchy culture because they make me laugh but damn they could be vicious if you are not on your shit If they don't like you they will let you know and they will dig in your soul and I figure Just for now. I'm gonna just pretend that I'm talking to you privately Yeah, so sky what what are you afraid of them seeing with you being fragile? Oh Nigga anything mr. Mr. Potato head people call me that What does that like a lime of me a lot of words they they could say anything like Literally anything even if it's like neutral and I'll feel odd Are you Are you being fragile I think so, yeah, yeah, I mean, how does it feel Shitty In what way cuz I'm also six five like I'm a big-ass nigga like I'm huge. So it's weird for me To be like especially like an in-person. I'm looked at as someone like oh walk me to my car You know protect me from the muggers and the rapists and I'm like, I'm walking and I'm like, well I hope we don't get mugged a right place I'm just as scared if not more so and I will throw you to the assailant. I'll run away So being that fragile like is not good for people to know Which is why I'm saying it here on your stream or one of all of these people Yeah, but I mean, so so I don't think you come across as fragile but a Good good for me then I I definitely am So what is so what does someone who's fragile feel like look like let's start there? me Yeah, do you think they smile? I think that they they will use mechanisms that are paper thin Is that what you're doing? I don't know. Am I I feel like maybe but I also oh I don't think they're paper thin But I think you are using mechanisms, right? So I think you laugh a lot and you come across as Confident. Yeah, that's fine. It's fine to laugh. I think you laugh when you become uncomfortable about things and it sounds like That's actually a winning strategy because you've sort of figured out that every time you're on stream You're fucking terrified and you're anxious. It sounds like and that brings out the laughter which twitch that loves I actually don't think that I'm I'm never uncomfortable Like I always feel really good about everything like everything I do when it comes to especially with people like I've never been shy Currently in this discussion right here, like I'm not particularly uncomfortable. I wouldn't say uncomfortable It's more like I'm I'm curious to see like where it goes and I'm anxious for the result But I mean I feel Personally totally fine. Of course now that is in contrast for let's say the twitch chat Was just lighten my ass up and I'm looking at the chat if it was here Then that would bring the uncomfortability because it's like damn but Currently, I'm completely fine. And yes, I do smile and laugh a lot About it you're right about literally everything good or bad in my group my best friends We all have you know it's like three three people that I live with her or my genuine best friends great people that I feel nothing negative about and we have a lot of bad things that happen to us, but we joke about it like It was nothing and we love it and we don't feel any pain or anything That's the way that I conduct myself doesn't work for other people. But yeah, so I mean I think sky Fortunately or unfortunately You know, I think for you to be To be fixed. I think you've got to move a little bit past the humor. Oh Right, so I think that like it sounds like stuff really bad happened growing up. Oh yes, and and since it and There's just it's weird like I don't know how else to describe this but you have You know, you have this persona where like you give us all these disclaimers and stuff and trigger warnings And so like to me that actually feels like misdirection like I don't doubt that there's legitimacy to it but like the the the phrase that I latch on to that gets you to pause and actually makes you feel a little bit uncomfortable is like Mentioning that you could be fragile it's not talking about all the bad shit that happened to you Because there's something like you've learned how to view that in a particular way Your view of your past has become like you've adapted to it. You're resilient. You've kind of learned how to move past it You're kind of okay with it now, but I think that that's like kind of like it's a shell that you put over it Well, that's that yeah, that's why I said that it's unfixable Okay, so in Sometimes when you get an infection your body forms something called an abscess Okay, and an abscess is like where you have the infected part your body kind of like walls off the microbes And forms like this like sphere Which has like all this like scar tissue and shit like that and the infection is like stuck inside And that's a survival mechanism that your body does to prevent the infection from spreading The problem is that when you have an abscess The infection is stuck inside the body The infection is stuck inside And so it's like running rampant in there like nothing gets in and nothing gets out So in order for an abscess in order for the the infection to truly be healed Do you have any idea what people do to an abscess? Drain it absolutely Right, and so unless we open up the abscess you can have an abscess Well, not for years, but you know You can have shit walled off and your body's like there's no way that's getting fixed because we've walled it all off And I think that's that's what you've done because here here's what i'm hearing from you Okay, that you have you have this diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder at the age of 15 That you have some patterns in your life that are so intractable So unsolvable so unfixable and that you corrupt everything you touch That's like a really bleak way, right? And so if we think about what kind of human can survive that it's you It's the larger in life It's the surrounded by friends. It's the laughing at the good and the bad That's the only way that's the only way you survive that shit Only way that's your abscess And you're torn You're torn because you feel guilty and you don't know how to deal with those feelings of guilt. So you choose not to regret your decisions That you tell people you live every day without regret Every day without regret and You regret every day Yeah, right Right. I just feel like it's kind of I feel like I feel like sometimes apologies are so hollow like yes, I I don't because you can't make it right That's why the apology happened. So it's like you can't make it right because You disappoint so you can't make it right there's no and I feel like I maybe this is a dumb. It could be a dumb thing to say but it's like I feel like If I do something bad to someone it is so hard for me to apologize because I feel honestly That i've taken away If I do that Even though it's something I can't fix If I apologize it makes me feel like i'm taking away their bad guy and I know that I feel that I know that might sound weird, but it's like I do feel a type of way and I don't like to think sky but I yeah Who who hurt you so bad that there's no way to apologize for what they did? Whoa Jesus What was the question who hurt you so bad? That there is no way to apologize for what they did there's no way to fix that hurt Where did you learn in the core of your being that there are some wounds that will never be healed? Holy shit Can I have a minute yes Okay Okay I'm just going to fill this with water One second. Okay. Jesus you are you're good. This is terrifying Take your time. You also don't have to answer. No, i'm gonna answer. Okay Remember i'll talk about anything Um, i've never been asked that question ever Um, okay, uh, let's see who my My My brother my mom my stepfather and my dad and not my sister If I were to put this in a tier list it would be my brother up here in s plus tier by himself And then a critical space And then a minus tier would be my mom, uh, and then my dad probably next to her And then that's and my stepdad, I mean he's just he's literal trash so Whatever you can just put him somewhere else So sky this is important, right? So like I think that So good job first of all, i'm glad you took a minute i'm glad you thought through things Yeah, that was a question Yeah, so I Want you to understand that like the way that you view the world is not wrong it was taught But like you have some fundamental things that you think Since these things are true for you Your situation is unfixable and those things are first of all that you disappoint And secondly that you can hurt someone in a way that can never be healed Yeah And that's the second one And if that's the case, so now now we come back to the original question, right? So when I asked you the original thing What are we talking about? What is it that is unfixed? What is it that is unfixable? Why do you feel like things are hopeless and now we get to it, right? This is the reason Because someone not just one person But this is a lesson that was taught to you by one person that you love And then another person that you love and then another person that you love Oh god, yeah, right So they just rammed that into you like over and over again that you just fucking That that there is hurt in this world that nothing can fix And so that became truth That became truth that became what it is And then the world is now a place where you are hurting people and then there's no way to fix that you are uncurable It's unfixable. You just are gonna let people down. They're gonna invest in you and they're gonna get corrupted like corruption gangrene What is happening Oh, sorry going in order for that to change you've got to start with this right? You've got to go to the root. Where did you how did you learn? And I mean, I think it's beyond the scope of what we can accomplish today But I oh yeah, but I I Think this is where it comes down to right because if you can heal what they did to you Then your entire worldview comes tumbling down Then everything that you view about the world is like can be rewritten But the okay, so you're you're everything you're saying is i'm gonna assume accurate because shit but um Even if I believed that things could be fixable I really I don't you don't believe you don't believe that they're fixable fine, right? I mean, so so let's just call that so i'm gonna tell you what you actually think Which is that like in theory in theory in theory? Dr. K. I agree with you But there's just no fucking way you don't know what they did to me. It's not actually fixable Yeah, um Like yeah like it sounds yeah, but at the end of the day it's just it's just not actually gonna happen Yeah, I I feel like now it's kind of like well just gotta try to figure out a way to win You know while having this kind of like baggage and I felt like it's possible because it worked for a bit but No, I mean it's making a lot of sense Yeah, so that's the problem right because I think if you want to win you gotta like offload that baggage, right? You gotta learn that you can be healed And if you can be healed then you don't have to be a corrupting influence for others Oh, i'm willing to talk about it. How much time do we have? Um, I have a patient in about 10 minutes I i'm happy to talk about it, too. It's just in my experience sky I'm good at what I do But this is the kind of thing that requires more than 10 minutes or even more than one session because it sounds like You've had repeated insults and it's not that i'm not willing to try or or not wanting to talk about it I just want to set realistic expectations for like what's going to be accomplished Okay, does that make sense? Yeah I mean like the only the only thing that sucks is that I mean and of course this is like it's like you Have blown open my world view and now it's like It's like oh well, uh another patient gotta go for a bit, which is fine. Got your own work to do But now it's like i'm just gonna be staring out my overcast window Like goddamn I just got bodied and I don't really know what to do fair enough Fair enough. So so so let me try to let me try to um Let's not end here. I'm not saying we should end Um, and and I get the sense you need to move forward because like you said like i've opened things up and I can't just leave you No, I know right but I can deal with it right I can I definitely I know you I know you can but I Hear what you're saying. So so let's let's get started, right? So let's talk about I feel like I feel like a whiny brat that just got his way like No, you're you're I don't think you're a whiny brat that that that got your way I think you raised a very legitimate concern which is that We we're like halfway done And so we should finish I've just never heard those words out of someone's mouth. Like I cannot believe you asked that that is that's actually like nuts to me like You're really good that's yeah, don't don't mind my rambling I mind your rambling your rambling is gold man And we're blurry Oh, oh, sorry. Hello me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah Yep So tell me about your brother. So he's the s plus right? So let's dive in you want to go let's go Yep, tell me about your brother the worst human being alive One of them um nick Well, not who I mean who wasn't always that way. Um nick and I are like both extremely Extremely manipulative and we're very good at it. My brother is the more attractive one and i'm funnier than him So like when we were kids, we just got We really ran my aunt's pockets like they was errands like we didn't care like We're trying to get like a game. We didn't steal from them But of course like we'd just be like, oh man We would have a lot more brother bonding time if we had that new pokemon like we were awful Um, and we played a lot of wowding older Yes, he's a 15 months older. Okay um I had to memorize the english words. He's we're 15 months apart. So that's why I now say it um But yeah, I know nick just sucks, um, I can dive into what he did is that Okay. Um, this is the trigger warning part Yeah, okay Uh reiteration of the trigger warning everyone Okay. So, um When I was 15, uh, a dude came into our house and I got raped um and I was like It was very odd Because I knew that I was gay. I was talking to this person on aol. I knew that I was gay Um, he said that he was like 17 he was actually like 40 Uh, he doxxed my house and went and um I should have like thought about it more when he asked It was like this thing like like trying to bait me to say like where I live in the house But of course it was the downstairs house the only room downstairs um So when it was happening, it was like My mind was basically thinking. Okay. Well, i'm gay so i'm gonna have to like it It was the most painful thing i've ever obviously in my entire life But you know what's even more fucked up though is that your body My body made for like two seconds. I enjoyed it for two solid seconds My body put me in a place to where this is what I wanted that will live with me I fucking hate thinking about that But what was worse was when my brother came home when it was done My logic was if I just don't say or do anything and I make no noise Then he will leave and i'll be able to just keep this right? So he's getting up to leave and my brother comes home from he goes back to my room and he tries to open the door He sees that i'm naked and he sees there's another he he sends another person in there I close the door and I lock it. I try to distract him The dude leaves my brother goes up and tells my mom Mom calls the cops. Um My brother tells the cops that I invited someone over to get fucked and that's what happened and it's my fault The cop pulls me aside asked me. I want to go to a foster home. My mom didn't know who to believe Ayada yada the next day I go and get blood tests blood work My mom took the day off work, obviously. We're meant to go do a bunch of tests. Okay um Then uh the neck the the the I think it was maybe a day after maybe two days after I went I went to school because after the weekend and I go to school and Every single person at our high school knows what happened But they don't know the actual story they think that I wanted it and that I that that was like like I was just a fag who just you know Went out and did all whatever um which Isn't unorthodox to think Because I have in the like I have in the past out of curiosity looked at gay porn and had been on craigslist to try To look for something like to try to look for someone but at the time I had no luck obviously because I'm an infant um but But nick like he knew that it wasn't he knew that it wasn't He knew but he didn't he wanted to scoop so he um He tells everyone in my school I find out when I enter my class and people are just like giggling like i'm not even kidding like it was a fucking movie Um, I didn't think much of it. I just had to give it a day after I was done. I cannot believe this I go to gamestop I go into buy a game and our mutual friend alex scott is working and he's like Oh, uh, I heard you had a special friend last night I literally dropped my food and my backpack and everything Because when he said that the manager even looked over like they thought it was funny And I took my mom's I was like driving my mom's expedition at the time because I you know, I could drive. Uh But my mom of course should not be in any legal trouble Even though she let me drive alone. Let's go ahead and just put that out there But yeah, no, then I I freaked out Oh cutting out server change Can you guys can you guys still hear me? Hello Hey Yo God intervened the power went out now i'm on my phone. It's okay though Okay. Oh my god. Oh nick is listening. What a demon. Let me turn on my camera Oh, I got it oddly coincidental you see me. Yep Yep Okay, is this is this okay, yep go Okay. Yeah, so Uh, I drove home Uh as fast as I could but honestly, I was running red lights. I was I didn't care. I called my mom My mom left work. She was hysterical. I drove I did not stop for anyone. I was really hoping to hit something, but I didn't um And I mean I just Went home and locked myself in my room and that was that I don't know if my brother got punished for it um but I know that whatever happened wasn't enough because In 2000 and now this is so fucked in 2016 um My brother, I guess is having a wedding and he knows we're not on good terms He goes on my subreddit and he makes a thing that says Oh, will you go to my wedding now? All of my fans think that i'm okay with my brother So they're thinking that it's a sweet gesture, but nick knows that i'm not on good terms with him but he's just I find out that he's working at chili's and he's like Using like oh you look like sky and he's like getting Some of my fans as friends on facebook and then when I didn't answer his wedding proposal he put my text messages that I sent to him during like During like around the time where I got raped like all of my messages all my business out on his personal facebook. Okay? and then He has the audacity to Begin posting shit on my reddit, which I had to take down This nigga is really out here Tritically me for getting raped and then That's where A lot of things went downhill In my life for sure My mom and I yeah go on So sky, so let me ask you something Um It is I mean have you talked to your like so you say that you and your brother aren't on good terms Is there a particular way that? um when you guys Like when y'all y'all aren't on good terms, like what does what does that like have you talked to him about? What happened and how you feel? Yep And they don't care He really doesn't care at all. I'm just turning off my fan. Okay. He does not care at all. Um, and and I uh He hasn't apologized. He doesn't um He he definitely doesn't seem He I mean he's he's again he he's never changed his stance he's blaming me for it I'm the one that got raped. It was me. It was actually not raped because it was consensual um So it's like he hasn't even left that at all and he would like try to get a hold of me by He took my one of my videos and had my dad and mom like mime it One second sky Oh god This nigga really is in my head he's i'm the fan Okay, so so sky I I think that uh, I I think that the challenge here is that So, I I mean I I think that this has to this has to be And you you sort of have made your peace with the situation to the extent that you can right? Yeah, to the I mean it it it it Oh, we just went out just got out Hello Uh-oh, I can't hear you Hello friend. Yeah. Yeah. There we go You hear me? Yeah, so I mean sky I think unfortunately I can't No, I I I mean I I think It's just going to be challenging because I think this is just I mean I recognize what you're going through and I feel confident That you can get better and I think this is where it starts, but like there's just no way that You know the the first thing that I can offer you is that I I do think you can get better and if you've never seen Your life in this way that you have these patterns That those patterns come from a place right and they come from something terrible that happened to you And if you can understand where a pattern comes from you can gain control over it okay, and and so this is something that that's very important to understand so the yogis in ancient india said that awareness precedes control And that like when I work with people who have addictions or trauma or things like that like there was a you know Kind of a I guess a you know far less severe stream than than what we're talking about But there's someone on a couple of weeks ago or a couple months ago Who's talking about why they date the same kind of women like over and over and over again? And they don't understand like why they keep on getting and women getting with women that they ultimately get bored of and then like They want to break up with And so unless you understand like what's going on inside you like you have no ability to control it Right, so so this is what I what I can offer you now Which is going to be unsatisfying for which I apologize the first is to understand that You are the way that you are because you learned some very important and crucial lessons in life And as long as you're operating under the assumption that those lessons are true That you're going to those lessons are going to kind of like default your pro They're going to set your default mode network your default programming when I go to the toilet and I like Pull the handle down it flushes like that's just an assumption So you're operating in life with certain key assumptions that you can hurt people and disappoint people in a way. That's never Repairable And and at the beginning what I would say is just notice When that thought or that feeling arises and influences your behavior? Because I think it happens not when you accept someone's help but the next day When your desire or your genuine intention to pay them back or do right by them or something like that when that when that starts to fade I think something of this feeling is going to arise right there And is going to actually become a self-fulfilling prophecy and something about that feeling and that hopelessness causes you to abandon your promise And the cool thing is if you can notice that thing in that moment and say oh this is the part of me like this is like This is everything that happened when I was 15 Rearing its ugly head and telling me that it doesn't fucking matter and then you can in that moment if you see it Right. This is like so you play league of legends Yeah, yeah, so there's like there's like stealth units in league of legends, right? Yeah, oh yeah, yeah So so like like you need like some kind of like vision like you need some like detection to be able to see the stealth thing Otherwise, you can't do anything about it And so you've been living your whole life without detection And there's been something that's just just run around in your subconscious just fucking everything up Yeah, and so it starts with detection. You got to detect it first Whether you can tackle it whether you can kill it whether you can stun it whatever that comes later, but the first thing is detection Um if if I promise to be brief, yeah Um I only have one more thing to say you should say it Okay um I just I I this is this is going to be something that I know that like it's not like trigger warning or anything It is something that many people are wondering about but there is something that I want to share with you because I think that Ever since you were talking about the disappointment thing. This is the first thing that was in my mind. I should have said it sooner basically, um A while ago. I was a very good friends with the content creator of donkey We we had a falling out when me and leah had a falling out. It's terrible. Um that's by the way the example of someone that I said someone that I lost that pretty much Was the worst thing like I would do anything to be your friend again, and I don't think it's reparable so that's like all like that that encompasses it but what I wanted to touch on is I never knew that being friends with someone that's so much more popular than you I can't tell you how many times I would get offers from companies and jobs that You know would give me deals that I believe would be amazing But then they would end by saying oh would you mind like passing on this to donkey? See if he wants to do it and either I I mean obviously i'm not gonna fucking do that He has an email and yeah, I don't want to I don't want that. I don't want that relationship But of course if he says no or even if I send it and there's no response or I don't you know, whatever it is Nine times out of ten the deal stops. That's fine So, I mean that that's fine in the sense that so i'm glad you shared that sky And I think there's actually like another way forward, right? so the main thing here for you to change the way that you view the world is to to Dismantle this belief that things are irreparable. So whether it's with your family Or it's with donkey Okay for you to like Process that and and repair doesn't necessarily mean make everything like Like like like not like that you guys have to be bffs again or that you and your brother are gonna like retire together And like live in the same house like that's not what repair means, right repair means that like you're gonna engage with them process Grieve and then let go Okay That if you did donkey wrong or something bad happened between the two of you guys that that or girls Yeah, it's me and leah and and she just she meant the world to me that's why I was Yeah, so so like that that's I only want to make that clear So so that's the that's the thing is like like that that needs to be addressed, right? Not moved past not laughed past not kind of like, you know like even from an egotistical sense because this is a distraction too because when you compare yourself to other people and you're like Oh, they're better than I am or I'm worse That's a pattern that your mind uses in the same way that it uses laughter to get away from the real thing Okay Yeah, so I'd say to kind of to sum up, you know, just try to notice it, right? Like when you're about to do the thing that you can't control The thing that is going to corrupt others and keep you stuck in life Stop and ask yourself What is the thing that is stealthed in my mind that is pushing me to do this? Like where am I getting this from and see now that you know what to look for? There's a decent chance you'll be able to see it Like it's kind of like I I guess I agree So that's that's where we start Yeah, okay. No, I think I think you've given me a pretty good weapon to use Yeah, so remember my brain is yeah, and and then you know You're more than welcome to come back on and we can kind of talk about follow-up or or you know in more details and things Like that. Thank you for sharing your story. Thank you for being honest No, this is really fun. Whenever you want me again, i'll be on and I will think about all this Thank you so much for your time dude. Yeah. Thank you guys very much. So guys I have to run So just um a couple of closing thoughts. The first is um, you know, thank you all very much for coming on Thank you sky for coming on and you know being open and honest about what hurts you um A couple of things that I I need to remember So just a reminder that like, you know If you guys do subscribe or or donate or anything like that that just goes to fuel our content Um, none of it comes to me i'm trying to help more people like i've gotten hundreds of dms and emails and shit like that Oh donate everybody to this nigga. He is raw And and so what i'm trying to do is actually like train people to like do something like what I do And and we're trying to set up we had a retreat back in august So we're trying to actually make as much stuff as we can free And and if we get enough income then I don't have to pay for everything and I can only pay for so much And so like thank you guys very much for subscribing donating in terms of sky like I think I think he's a riot And by the way, I saw your tweet about that that when when someone approaches you with a deal you tweeted about that, right? Yeah I tweeted about that. So I mean so I I love I love sky's twitter and I you know I think your stream is really entertaining. You're like diamond two on lull, right? Yeah, I can't hear you anymore you muted but um But thank you guys very much for coming and we really appreciate your support You guys should check out sky's stream. I think it's a riot because you know, you get to see his his his funny lovable side Um, which even when he's hurting he can't help but let that funnable. I still can't hear what you're saying So this makes it fun for all of us But anyway, uh, yeah, I don't know. I'm not meeting him. He muted himself. So that's Oh, you didn't mute. I can hear just a little bit. Oh, there it goes There it goes. Anyway So I gotta get going we're gonna see on sunday from six to eight PM eastern time and good luck sky Thank you. Try to try to drop some of that detection man Subscribe to this nigga right here. You are dope. I can't wait to see what you do. All right, we'll talk take care of man Bye. Bye friend. Bye everybody