 Listen to me. What would it feel like, so you're scared of hate, but I'm gonna ask you another question. What would it feel like if you didn't manipulate someone and they chose to love you instead? If they actually said, you know what, despite all of your BS and with you just being you and without manipulating me, I love you. How would that make you feel? There would be a comma afterwards. I say, I love you. Now we're late for quidditch is what I would hear. That's how crazy again it is to me. Like that's what I would hear. Like, oh, even though you didn't, you know, make me feel a certain way about you, I love you. Let's go win for Gryffindor. Like that is how absolutely Oh man, I did not sleep at all. Good Lord. Sorry to hear that, man. No, no, no, no, it's totally fine. It's not, it wasn't a bad thing. It was just, I didn't sleep. So how have you been? I'm still alive. I think that's pretty much a blessing at this point. Good. I, oh, that's what I was gonna tell you. So do you remember when like last time you told me, well, I said I was gonna clean my room. Okay. Like at the end of it all, I said that, well, you'll be happy to know that I kind of took that in a different direction. I cleaned my room, but I also found a new place to live that is not with a bunch of people that don't pay rent. Good for you. Yeah, that is huge. But yeah, so that's what I've been doing. That's, so let's talk about that for a second. Okay. Because I think that's more significant. I mean, it sounds very significant to me because not just from a financial perspective, but let's think about why were you living with people who didn't pay rent? Like what drove you to do that? Well, I think like I've always worked a lot of jobs and I don't spend a lot of money on just myself. So when my first video on YouTube blew up and I saw the money that I was making, I just was like, oh man, I could just live with my best friends forever. This is my path to being Drake. Like I thought I was gonna go so far that Money, whatever. Like we could just live together. That didn't happen. But at the time, I thought that was going to happen. So when things started slowing down and getting bad after four years of doing it, I didn't really know how to live alone or live with less people. So I kind of just kept it going and added more people and now I'm in crippling debt and I'm alone. Okay. Sorry. Well, so, okay. So how does that feel to be in crippling debt and alone? Ah, the question. I mean, honestly, the debt feels right. It feels like an ample punishment because I also think that like by paying for everything for everybody, I also believe I kind of ruined their lives a bit. Like I spoiled them and I didn't do anything with it. I would tell people like during my depression. Oh, yeah, we're gonna like videos are coming back. We're gonna work. Like, you know, we got this. Just stay. We got this. We got this. And then I never worked and that was like an ongoing cycle for the next three years. Like I feel like with debt and guilt, it's pretty good. Pretty good punishment. It's pretty terrible. Okay, so so or and how does it feel to be alone? I think I will be okay is like I think that I just need space to be like just me and so I'm looking forward to that like It feels good because I'm moving like I'm moving a lot of my stuff like today tomorrow the next day and it Feels good that I actually was brave enough to just end the cycle. So it's been so hard. So like I don't know how it's gonna be But right now I'm very confident that if I'm only financially Taking care of myself and I'm only doing things that are like important for me and putting everyone else first. I'm hoping that that will That'll be the catalyst that starts change to make me come back to Yeah, I was doing before so sky I think it's great because I think there was something within you that felt Like like, you know a sense of your identity was in supporting other people Oh, yeah, and sure and so you sort of let that part of you which I think is is basically, you know a part of your ego And so like in order to be a good person you had to like help other people and pay their rent and like You know, I have no doubt that there was genuine caring involved In terms of like, you know wanting your your friends and you know to have an easy time and that your success should You wanted to share your success and all this other kind of good stuff But I think it's actually a huge step forward if you've Let those voices stop running the show and drive you into crippling debt Because that's what those voices do Yes, a hundred a zillion percent I will say this though. It kind of sucks because along the way like I had made friends that Didn't need money like I had made friends like when I would like when I was be at home versus like Going out to conventions like packs and and and whatnot like I would have friends that are just there to chill I didn't have to pay for anything. I could just relax And it sucks because like I just I don't know this this lifestyle kind of ruined a lot of those relationships because I wasn't even sure how to be a good friend Like I I treated them like absolute garbage Because I thought that you know, I could just solve any problem by paying them But then if I couldn't it's like oh, I'm gonna pay them But then if I couldn't it's like oh my okay, I don't have any problem solving skills now like Yeah, so just fuck so let's think about that for a second Why do you think that you treated your friends that didn't need your help like garbage like that's strange, right? one would expect turns out to not be very strange, but one would expect that the You know that those would be the relationships that would have been the healthiest and that you have cultivated the most But it seems like the opposite actually happened I guess like I guess because my actions that I would normally do towards people that lived with me I I did them on others that didn't live with me and and really stuck their neck out for me, which is like, uh, You know One of them let me borrow like like without any hesitation at all dropped 8100 literally like The next day when I needed it, right? and Two years down the road. I didn't even begin to talk about paying them back I probably could have if I budgeted correctly and there's a lot of people out there that I owe money to a lot a lot Like whatever you think is a lot triple it and that's half like So I with this particular case though She ended up Like she was so hurt that I didn't like Talk to her about it because in my world i'm thinking Oh if I if someone gives me money after all these years like people that live with me I pretty much deserve it at that point like after i've given the hundreds of thousands of dollars for rent food all the shit That we did it's like I don't I'm definitely not going to pay you back. But with the people outside of the home I couldn't I Didn't have the knowledge like the basic human decency to just like honor an agreement You know what I mean? Like I didn't even think about it and it fucked me up really bad. I mean it darned me up It darned you yeah, oh, yeah, thanks. Thanks for being sensitive about your language. I appreciate that I'm gonna pause for a second because somebody just gifted a bunch of subs. So thanks nerd Great, yeah good I don't know who that is. But thank you very much guys. We appreciate it but kind of coming back to sky So sky, what what do you want to talk about today? What how can I help you? I mean we could dig into that if you want to in your relationships and why you perceive your relationships like that Um, but you know, is there something in do you feel like because last time you you know, you sent me that voicemail Which was um, really fantastic actually Wait, which one you sent me like a voicemail that that you recorded like you sent me like this tech like this voice message that Was like you were in bed and trying to fall asleep and you had some thoughts and you sent me this. Yeah So I mean we could I gotta remember what I said You were talking about like when you should start making changes Oh, yeah so What do you want to talk about you tell me like what would be helpful? Okay. Um I think we already discussed like the the feeling of it being too late to do things. Um I got this i'm gonna think because I I i'd put notes. I even yeah, that's right. I had notes i'm so dumb Uh when I when I had reached out Do you want me to just do you want me to just I I don't think there's an oh, oh, yeah the like If I start right this second Um, will it prove that like, um, you know, I won't procrastinate or Is it better to start later after i've had preparation like it's jumping into something cold turkey The way to go or is waiting And being prepared better Or are they both rationalizations? That's what I was confused about. Yeah, so so you tell me what are we talking? Is there something particular on your mind? Do you want to dig into that? Do you want to talk about friendships? Tell me What do you think would be productive that that so I I want to know can I read? People can I play the voicemail for people? Yeah, I think I still have it hold on Oh lord, it's it's not I don't think it's it's not like no, I know I know it's just oh maybe i'm gonna have it Um you do if you look in our group chat, oh it's in the group chat and Yeah, you just scroll up as a big black square Yeah, here we go. Okay, so y'all ready chat. We're gonna listen. Okay. This is like super unprofessional I'm sorry for doing it this way When i'm about to sleep my voice is dead and then I had this thought and i'm totally down to like talk about this on another stream if you'll have me but um, I wanted to ask When it comes to life changes like things that we talked about Is that something that I should just do immediately? Oh shit. Sorry Okay, this is like soon to like talk about this on another stream if you'll have me but um, I wanted to ask When it comes to life changes like things that we talked about Is that something that I should just do immediately right now or is there a merit of like setting a date to start like? Do you think like setting a date is rationalizing it like what would be The wisest way to affect change in a healthy manner Um, the hell was on my arm Is like kind of my question Again, so sorry. This is like super All right, do you guys get that so let's go back to this, okay So, what do you think? Um, I I can't tell when i'm manipulating Myself or people I I don't know how to tell and It's getting bad because even if i'm like now when I talk I could be telling the truth, but everyone will think i'm manipulating But then am I like that's like I don't even know like that that's why I sent that because I was thinking about everything you said about Or that really helpful session about you know going on stage giving it your all but then being Content because that was the best you could have done And I was like that is genius But I don't know when to start and I can't tell what my brain if my brain is tricking me or not. So that's Yeah, so I think a great it's so first of all you've taken the first important step Which is realizing that your brain loves to trick you Right, is that normal? It's completely normal. It's very normal So so that that and even then you're kind of saying you were saying that oh like sometimes like i'm telling the truth and people Think i'm being manipulative. I think some of the times when you're the most manipulative sky is when you tell the truth um And Right No, I mean damn So just because you're telling the truth doesn't mean it isn't manipulative I cannot understand that you cannot like you don't I don't get I don't How Are you like like manipulating the truth or nope so so I think I think manipulation so let's define manipulation, right? So what is manipulation? I guess Changing or maybe not reforming what's the word i'm looking for like Bothering an object or an idea i'm so i'm trying to find the right it's it's it's a hard question harder than it seems uh I'm gonna say Changing Changing something by way of Of Uh, not something with malicious intent. Okay. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah changing something with malicious intent. It's great It's great, right? So so I I think it's sort of like controlling someone's behavior Usually like altering something for the purpose of controlling someone else's behavior and like with some degree of like Malicious intent or you're kind of taking advantage of them, you know, it's like a little bit immoral. There's something in there I don't know that it's necessarily malicious intent But I I basically think about manipulating someone as sort of altering information or tailoring information to control someone else's behavior Like that's what manipulation is manipulation is about controlling other human beings right Yeah, and sometimes one of the best ways you can control other human beings is by telling the truth Oh my Jesus christ Okay, right so I I think that you do some manipulative stuff you're kind of an open book, but I think you understand how Being an open book Can be advantageous to you and I think you calculate something about that I think I think that you're right for the most part, but I'm not lying when I say that I just don't know when the manipulation switch is on I completely agree with you. I do not blame you for manipulating. Okay to be clear So I think manipulation happens a lot of times when we don't even want it to but it happens almost like why do you want to control? Another person's behavior like what's like when you think about when you manipulate when one human being manipulates another human being What is the main thing that drives them? What drives the manipulation? um to To make sure that they don't do anything bad that has anything to do with you maybe yes So if you had to if you had to attach an emotion to that What is the emotion that one feels when I don't want you to do something bad to me? What is the emotion I'm feeling? I don't want you to do something fear. Absolutely Fear absolutely Right. Oh, thank god Jeopardy It's it's it's weird right? So like I know that this stuff seems really simple in in a sense it is but we don't ever stop and like think about What actually drives us and you can get to the answer. It's just like let's just that's you're doing great sky so the first thing you understand is you're when you manipulate people out of fear like if you think about it like if I You know, let's say i'm married and and you know, let's use a real example So, you know, my wife doesn't want me to play as many video games as I play And so then she's like, oh like how late like I have trouble waking up on the weekends and then she's like, okay Like how late were you up? And then then I like I want to manipulate the information a little bit, right? I'm like, oh I I did a little bit of work and I played some dota I sort of say like both of those things even though the little bit of work may have been 60 seconds And then the dota may have been two hours, but like I sort of present it like I did both of those things like that's manipulation, right? It's manipulation. Yes. So in that moment like why am I manipulating like what is the drive behind me manipulating? Can you guess? I mean, I would say in that case. It's like I think it sounds like you kind of know your body and I guess what's best for you so maybe you did that because you didn't want to elicit a reaction that would Be disastrous. So you wanted to save that exactly. So i'm trying to control another person's behavior, right? I didn't want to elicit a reaction That is not gonna like affect me. Well, because if you get pissed at me then like you know Right that causes marital problems fine So would you would you were you conscious like in that example? Like are you saying that knowing fully well what you're doing 100? Uh me at this point usually But that takes practice, right? So it takes practice So the first thing so so then like if the goal of manipulation is to control someone's behavior And then if the reason you want to control their behavior is to prevent a particular outcome Where's the root of the desire to manipulate coming from? Is that that question may be a little bit I have yeah, I have no clue So like what is the thing that's driving the manipulation? Let me ask. Let me ask it that way We were kind of talking about emotions earlier um like for me, I guess like I Oh Well, actually God it all lined up. So just like how you said right that 30 seconds of or a minute of work and two hours of dota I did the same thing for about Five years when it came to people I was living with like how much money Was actually needed to like maintain this lifestyle and then like I know that I would definitely like Not be honest about how much I was paying for rent or who was paying rent or how many people, you know Was I doing this for? But I would be telling the truth And explaining that yes, there are people that don't pay things. Yes rent is high. Yes, I pay everything But I was never I was never like forthcoming with the information I was really afraid to like I was really afraid that anyone would just call me an idiot because I was being one like Because it was so like yeah, so good. So what's the driving force there? You you said it you you said it but i'm gonna yeah, just just not have someone think that i'm a complete idiot Yeah, so so and that too you said you were afraid that someone was going to call you an idiot Right and also everyone like It's so obvious to everyone else like and it's so stupid that i'm sitting here and i'm like literally giving Putting myself in a lifetime out of debt but yet when I lament like when I tell my problems to literally anyone even at the peak of their honesty like Everyone it was all the same like dude. You gotta leave. You gotta live by yourself like Yeah, you should do this man, that's so dumb and it's hard because it's like I can't do that Like I don't know. I don't know why I couldn't do that and for everyone else. It's like they They're all gods that they all could do it if they were me they'd be doing it right now and it's like I couldn't do it. I can't bring myself to do okay. So there are two layers of this sky I'm gonna try to keep track of both of them. I'm gonna stick. Oh start with manipulation because this is very important I think this could help a lot of people So fear is what drives your manipulative tendencies Right, so if you if you're saying I don't know When i'm manipulating and when i'm not manipulating what can you look at within yourself to give you a clue whether there's manipulation or there's not manipulation What i'm scared of absolutely right So you look for fear, right? You look for fear Because you have learned like so remember manipulation is not it's not about evil. That's why I don't like the word malicious Manipulation in your case, I think is predominantly about protection It's your mind trying to protect you from everyone calling you an idiot because you have the curse of being smart And you know that what you're doing is stupid and you know that if other people know what you're doing They're going to tell you things that they're going to say it's stupid. They're going to think you're stupid And they're going to give you solutions that any idiot could do but you're not going to be able to do them and you know that Because what keeps those people in your house is not iq It's feelings And like feelings could give They don't care about what the rationale is like the reason that you've been like Keeping people in your house and I don't know where this goes, but we can explore it But like, you know somewhere along the way We've talked some about your past is like you you want to support people You want to help people like you don't want to abandon them because you've been fucking abandoned And you don't want you know, you want people to be like Safe and comfortable and like that didn't happen for you. So I think there's something there We can go there if you want to but let's table that for a second if you're okay with it I'm just highlighting a little bit because I don't think it's idiocy that keeps these people in your house Because if you think about the stupid or an action is The more powerful the thing has to be within you that like gets it done So this is another thing that I see a lot is people judge themselves for doing like astronomically idiotic shit And what I want all of you guys to understand is that if you're doing something that everyone else is causing stupid calling stupid That just makes you feel more and more incompetent, but that's incompatible Everyone else is causing stupid calling stupid that just makes you feel more and more incompetent, but that's incomplete. That's not right It's not that you're stupid. It's that there is something within you that is driving you so hard that it overcomes How glaringly idiotic it is? Does that make sense? Yeah, so We'll get to let's go back to fear and manipulation But I I think you know when you say like oh It's like all these people would call me stupid like you don't want them to think that about you But what what's really going on is like I don't think they understand right like sky they don't get it They don't understand why you do what you do. You may not even get it You may not understand why you do what you do All you know is that what they think is simple you just you're not going to be able to do that You just can't kick everyone out of your house And Fuck this I mean darn this. Okay. This is a bombshell. I think I don't know I was like the whole time you were talking. I was struggling to see If I should say this, but I will I mean in in in a good amount of those cases if yeah, they would call me an idiot, but I believe that they also wouldn't give me money They wouldn't let me borrow anything if they knew that it was going to all these people that are just Pretty much freeloading So it's easier to just say that i'm the target and not let Anyone know that they're not doing what they need to do Because I don't want them to be scrutinized, but I certainly don't want to be scrutinized. It's like I wanted to I wanted to say that the lifestyle worked for me and I did genuinely believe that While I was depressed if I just kept this lifestyle going like my friends would eventually uplift me and I would be back on my feet in no time. So whatever money I borrowed from someone it was always like Oh, man, that's a lot but I I can do it now like, you know, i'm feeling better and then it never got better and then having a bunch of people here then turned into the worst decision i've ever made like that's that's my thing is that I Threw it all I tarnished all of my social relationships to maintain this lifestyle and now it's like Even the people living here. I I don't i've never been this alone in my life easy like So Alone like it's nuts. I'm just annoying to everybody now on on the internet and that just that sucks to know That's all I had to say it's quite a bit what are you feeling right now terrible yeah that I can gather In what dimension Yeah, I mean This is all like retribution though, right? Like Everyone that's been canceled online has like they're typically trying to do something And forget the past Well, then they get canceled for something that was brought up and i've always thought like I have a lot of actions that i've done in my home that definitely could raise A cancel like for sure, but to me My punishment is again Debt until i'm dead and being alone like I I feel like even like I I feel like i'm I did all of this damage to myself almost entirely no one else is to blame and that's really hard for me to live with like Really really hard. I can't do it sometimes Did you how long have you been living with that? Oh Like ever since 2015 Like I Oh, yeah, a hundred percent around then when my channel started going down when I was depressed. I just felt like damn Even though depression you can say everything that happens to you is your fault Yes a hundred percent Times ten Everything that happens to me good or bad is a direct action of me a hundred percent How long have you I don't see how it could be any other way What How long have you believed that my whole life Okay, what does it mean if it if that isn't true To me that's like Like if that's not true Then also in that world where it's not true humans can also fly like they could just soar into the air because to me I think that whatever action you took I just always thought well I did this action or like I was a catalyst in this way, so I shouldn't have done that Kind of asked for it stuff like that Yeah, so i'm gonna say something to you, okay so like sometimes when I work with people they say things like oh, yeah the fact that it was my fault that he hit me because I should have done a better job at like cleaning up It wasn't his fault. It was my fault What do you think about that? Oh shit um Ah for that person maybe Oh Man be honest this guy. I don't think it's the person the person that got hit. It's not their fault My brain is short-circuiting right now. Okay, good That's what we're here for and let's understand let's understand what's the short what's the short circuit Because it's Ah Ah pain because it's not Holy shit, okay it This is the hardest thing, okay, it's not the person that got hit it's not their fault But they were a part of the act. No, that's stupid It doesn't matter if they were part of it They got hit by a monster Like they're they're they're in it I guess they're doing so tell me what you're feeling Oh just Ah That's that that sound is how i'm feeling. Uh-huh. Yeah, so let me try to put words to that sound. Okay Yes, thank you. So First of all, I think you're doing great sky. Sorry for bodying. That's so hard like yeah, I I know i'm but Do you want to do you want to take a break or no? No, no, no, no, no We should dive right in i'm good. I'm just like Yeah, i'm good i'm ready, okay So I think here's what's going on within you. So, you know that that's not that person's fault, right? Like when they get hit and they say oh, it's because I didn't do xyz. Like I I should have been better You there's a part of you that knows that it's it's ridiculous that we call that The person who got hit is not the perpetrator they're the victim The problem is like if I if I make you say that You say like that's true for them, but it's not true for me But like how can I say that it's not true for me because that's just fucking stupid, but it isn't true for me It it does exactly it. Oh Yes Oh, yes Thank god If I if I was left alone with that that would have been the end of sky will okay Right so So so that that can be so good good job, right? And and the feeling is good I think you actually did a very good job of describing how you felt right, which is like that. It's like an existential grunt It's like just like a torturous like you can't Because it doesn't compute like you know that you shouldn't feel this way about yourself But you do and it doesn't matter how true that scenario is For this fictional person. It does not apply to you You are different and you have trouble computing that together and your thing is blurry by the way your Mike there we go. Yeah Okay. Yeah, um I was gonna say that first of all You're great. And uh, second of all the reason why I would think that i'm different Is because I think that I was born with a lot of advantages that makes it so those kinds of situations I believe they're very it's very hard for that to happen to me like For example, like okay, i'm Like six five if I don't hunch my back so it's like I don't really have to worry about walking to my car I'm huge. No one's gonna attack me and they think that i'm gonna fight them I'm a bitch. I will run but they don't think that so like In that scenario if someone were to jump me, right? Sure, that's not my fault. But in my mind it's like That is probably not going to happen because I have I have a set of skills and physical attributes that make it difficult For those things that happen to me Yeah, but I mean, yeah, pardon me for being insensitive but no, please, you know First of all, this this is a belief that is not doesn't it wasn't born today Right the belief that you were everything that happens to you is your fault was not born today You felt this way as you say your whole life Often ever since that ever since the rape I I felt that like times 10 you think Right. Yeah So like this is if I wasn't on aol and and and so this is the thing back then you weren't six five Right and you weren't an adult You were a kid And you And and this is unfortunately what happens to people who have been abused Is they think that it's their fault, especially when they're kids and it's funny. I just talked about this, but what are you feeling? I mean I I I think it was my fault 100% Yeah, 100% and then when I look at even things that I do now my Channel my twitch my friendships my debt All of that All of it my fault entirely 100% So sky, what does it mean if it isn't your fault? What does the world look like? it Like I said people I open the window right now and harry potter is about to draft me for quidditch like that's the same world So so yeah, so let's let's dig into that because I think this has to be this has to be approached. Okay So I think right now so let's think about let's remember that Our mind does things for a reason Okay And our mind is really trying to help us out a lot of times It doesn't do as good of a job as we want it to but that's just because it doesn't know how to do any better So let's think about why your world view is so difficult to abandon So right now the good thing about your world view is that it makes sense Right, like it makes sense that You live in a world where you are an actor Like isn't you can take action not like you're fake But that you are like an actor in the world and you exert agency in the world and the world responds to you So the world makes sense because like, you know You're you're playing a video game and you control the character and if you hit the space bar the character jumps and that's just It makes sense every time you hit the space bar the character jumps. So this is a world that makes sense You also have control over this world if you are responsible for everything that happens to you That also means you have a hope right if you can learn how to be a better person Then you can create the life that you want you can create a life where you're safe You can create a life where you're loved you can create a life where you're wealthy You can create a life where you're comfortable all of these things are within your power. If only you figure out how Right Oh, I mean, yeah. Yeah, that sounded great. I was I was lost. I was like damn sign me up for that Yeah, so that's that's the the beautiful thing about the world that you've constructed Because you at the end of the day like all of these things are possible for you But it's kind of You feeling something? Yeah, i'm feeling Just can't drink water you can continue you're good. I'm curious what you're feeling I'm just Waiting for harry potter behind me in this world to come and strap me up But I just I want to hear more so I don't think harry potter's out there Okay, so so I think the challenge here though is that like that's not actually the way the world works, right? Because like the the the hard thing about giving up your worldview is you give up control for your future If other people are involved like let's say there's two kinds of world like there's like there's a single player game And there's a multiplayer game And if you're playing a single player game, then you can control everything in the game But if you're playing multiplayer and i'm like i'm running around and like I get like pvp'd and ganked. Yes Then like I don't want to live in the multiplayer world Because like other people can interfere with me and so I feed, huh? Sorry, they've i'm saying they feed like if I play with someone. Yeah, they're gonna feed like loops. Yeah Thank you. Yes And and so it can actually be like a little bit Dangerous to think about living in a multiplayer world because like you're actually not in control and that thought is terrifying Like yeah Ew Yeah, I don't like that And and especially especially when we when we look at, you know, for example victims of of traumatic experiences um, so this is going to be kind of a random thing, but oftentimes people who are uh, People who are anorexic or have eating disorders, that's oftentimes linked to an abusive relationship in their early years So they have especially like a parent or something who was like really mean to them or something Um, or had conditional affection or things like that And if you talk to these people like so eating disorders the root issue if you talk to people is it's about control So someone like a 15 year old girl with anorexia like all of the ones that i've worked with When I talk to them it's all about control they can't control their parents They can't control their grades, but they can control what they put in their body And it's this really bizarre Sense of control and the more you try to control what they eat the more they fight and the more they rebel They just want to be able to it's all about control control control It's not about intelligence You can show them as much information that you want to about them becoming getting osteoporosis at a young age or electrolyte balances Or things like that oftentimes these people when they're very severe they get hospitalized against their will because they're not eating and their body is like Literally dying and their heart is getting arrhythmias at the age of 15, which they should not have And they they just you cannot communicate with them on any kind of rational level because for them It's all about control. They cannot surrender control because early on in their life They did not have it and the thought of not having again is absolutely terrifying Because you will tell yourself whatever you can to not be 12 years old and on aol again Because in that moment in your life, you didn't have control and and there's no fucking way you're willing to go back to that state And you're six five when you stand up straight and you are in control And the world is going to give you what you deserve and you are going to create what the world gives you I was But like I it wasn't like it wasn't like I just like logged on to aol and then a dude came and raped me like it was way way more than that like I was literally like In a gay chat room trying to get information about you know being a semen demon and that happened A guy dm me and lied to me about who he was we talked for a bit I think he darks the hell out of me, which is why when he asked Oh my god, i'm so mad when he asked if I lived out stairs I did not even think why anybody would ask me that or to this day I like if I could just go back inside but just Be like you shouldn't have done that like everything else is fine. Tell him you live upstairs in your parents room He'll break in and die but No, I had to answer that Yeah, so why are you telling me that what are you doing? What are you using those statements for? What's the function of your words in this conversation? Because that action is not just a one-way thing like there are things that I could have done to prevent it and I just feel like It didn't I didn't feel like I didn't have control of the situation At all really I felt That oh shit. Oh my god. No, I sound like law and order. I literally was about to just say It felt like I wanted it to happen and I don't know if that's true I know it wasn't I know that it definitely wasn't true when the cops came here, but it's like Like in the middle of it in the middle of the of the rape the only thing I remember vividly Is that my body tried to like convince my mind that this felt good and it was okay Because you're gay. So it's like well, you're gay. So this is what's gonna happen. Anyway, so like I I don't I guess I just tricked myself and i've always felt really guilty Because like I tell people that you know, I I think the worst part about being raped a conversation that I think should be opened a lot more is That because your body is really good at protecting itself I think if I felt So I was like I was trying to convince myself There was about two seconds where it was enjoyable it felt good end of day and then I have to live with that That it was the most painful thing that happened to me, but my body tried to convince myself that It was fine for two seconds. I think that's the whose fault was it? Oh If I felt if my mind convinced me of that I I don't know if anybody else would think that But think what Like my mind didn't my mind tried to make it okay, I guess Because So I kind of feel like if my mind made it okay, oh shit, this is hard I kind of felt like if my mind made this okay, then somewhere deep in the recesses of my psyche is guilt like Maybe I did something to It or something and and my mind was just following up it's like oh well, I think this is kind of what you wanted maybe not as violent, but I've never been able to explain why I felt that way, but I just have to live with that. So after that if I can make my brain feel like That then I figured Doesn't get much worse than that like can you can you uh, so so sky I can tell that you're working through a lot of stuff. I'm not able to quite keep up So can you help me understand? What you mean by guilt? So it's clear to me that you sort of figured something out. I'm just not able to follow you quite as quickly Um, so what do you feel guilty for? Going in a gay chat room And like Specifically not Really talking I didn't have anyone to talk to by being gay in my house, so it's like I feel guilty for taking that method when maybe It would have been better to do something more healthy like Reach out to someone that's not in my family or I don't know Something like that like that my the action that I took was like why would I do that like it didn't it just doesn't make sense So sky do you deserve forgiveness? Absolutely not zero percent No way Because I mean I did a lot I did too much damage to people even now like Like I lay in the wake of bring out your dead like there are so many lives that I've ruined and then obviously like I mean I It doesn't get any worse Than lying to your fans like six times and going through the exact same cycle to the point where even your most loyal fans are like I We're done And then I want I wanted forgiveness, but I would always like mess it up. So So at this point now I deserve it Yeah, no, I don't think so How would you feel if people did forgive you? Well, I would I Have to get my nimbus 2000 and hop right on that fucking quidditch team That's the first thing that I would I would if people forgave me I'm I'm out there right now getting the seeker like for hogwarts for grivendor. No, i'm a hufflepuff, but you know That's how I feel. Okay getting that nimbus. Can I just think for a second sky? Absolutely I'm gonna just sit and look at my phone I Sky do you are you a good person? No No, okay, do you um Are you loved I Don't know have you been loved before I don't know. I can't tell Because That's what I struggled with with my mom forever is after the rape my brother told everyone and bullied me about it like No one in the family seemed to think that was heinous or terrible And it's like oh All right You go to nick's baby shower. He just put in 2017 18 just put all my Angry texts out there and facebook and my reddit Put all my rape business out and ridiculed it again. But but yeah, let's go to nick's baby shower like trash So if that's happening I think How could you let how could you love someone and take that action it makes no sense. Yeah Therefore I'm gonna just think for another minute. Okay. Thank you for answering those questions. You're cool So sky, um, first of all, do you have any questions for me because I I think I think we may be coming to maybe a closing point soon. Just I want to just see if there's anything I mean this this is this part of me is Very Dark and remember in the beginning I said like I feel like I have unfixable problems I think that what we're diving into now is Like the final lock and key I agree It's it's the final loss. No question about that. Yeah, basically, so I don't mind I I don't mind That being a stopping point at all. Yeah, so so I don't I don't think we're done But I I just think that there's something I need to spend some time thinking about and there's some thoughts that I want to share with you and i'd love to get your Your reaction to what I want to share with you, but something tells me that your immediate reaction is not going to be As important as you thinking about this over the next few days Yeah, and I and i'm Happy to do another show whenever okay So sky the first thing is that what i'm going to tell you I think is going to require immense immense courage And also, I don't blame you if you decide not To go down this road But essentially your entire life is built upon this very very simple premise That needs to be like that needs to be yanked out from under you and if it can be then I think you can be fixed But in order for this premise to be yanked out you have to be willing to yank it out And I think it's going to be absolutely terrifying because it's going to change the way that you see the world But in order to to do the things that I think you need to do to live a happy life you have to change your World view so let me explain what I mean You live a life where everything has comes down to you. Everything is your under your control Everything is kind of your fault both the good and the bad That other people don't essentially have agency in the world that other people acting Are just based upon whether you can manipulate them enough to do the things that you want right like Either you're going to manipulate them and then they'll do the right thing in which case you're responsible or you're insufficient in terms of manipulating them, which is like Your fault once again because you didn't like handle the relationship the right way, right it doesn't It doesn't presume that there's any kind of agency or control outside of you. Does that make sense? Also like I I think somewhere along the way you stopped You closed the doors to you being capable of being loved And I didn't ask you if you're able to love I think you are I think what what's challenging here is that I I don't know if you're willing to take the risk to be loved again Because I think that like that, huh? Was that the the yank the blanket the part of it buddy? That's part of it So I think you have to risk a lot of things One is the possibility of understanding that other human beings actually have agency and control in this world, which is a terrifying thought Right. Oh, yeah, it's like it's like taking taking a single player person and sticking them into a multiplayer game They're like this is not what I signed up for Oh, you learned how to clap back. Yes, right? so that's exactly how I feel and and so you have but like And I think that there's a part of you so now I want you to look within yourself There's a part of you that recognizes that like when some people are the like when you have a 12 year old That gets raped by an adult man Who found where the kid lived? You know that that is not the 12 year old's fault Like you know that But it feels like it was your fault and this is what happens to people who were abused So people who are abused start to it's it's almost it's not like it's not you're stupid. In fact, it's the opposite So on a very simple level it comes down to theory of mind and now i'm going to get a little bit academic So when you have a child their understanding, huh? Well, yeah, just really quick. I was I just turned 15 at the time. I just wanted to oh 15 fine Yeah, but go on you're good. Um, so I think when you know when kids are young less less so when they're 15 But when kids are young they don't understand that other human beings have thoughts and feelings and act like have behaviors Like they just don't understand they don't have like theory of mind So they don't have the capacity to understand that like like You know, I have a two-year-old and my two-year-old doesn't understand that like I have thoughts and feelings of my own They're just if they want daddy to like tell them a story at three in the morning when they've woken up Like they don't understand that i'm talking like that doesn't compute Their brain has not developed the capacity to understand that other human beings Like think and act in a particular way and that they have their own reasons for doing things Which is why abusing a child is so devastating because if nothing else exists in the world So let me put it this way So like a five-year-old is basically playing a single-player game because their brain does not have the capacity To recognize that other people are actually they think everyone is an npc when it's actually like Another like it's like another player that zoned into your server, but they think everything is npcs That makes sense And if something bad happens to a five-year-old and you're in a world full of npcs, whose fault is it? Your fault absolutely right because everyone else is an npc And it's that is Yeah, wow I never I I never actually Is that my do you think that's linked to why like babies don't really have object permanence? And then like when you just make something disappear, they think it's gone forever because they can't Okay, so sort of so object permanence is a slightly different thing Yeah, but they they yeah It is linked in the sense that that's one example of a fundamental capacity that a baby does not have that adults do have And another capacity is is called theory of mind which is separate from object permanence But which is your ability to like recognize that other people have persistent thoughts and feelings And they're their own agents so when it Go ahead Oh, yeah, I mean that what you just said like everyone had their own thoughts and feelings and agency I just to me, I I can't even Imagine that being true. Yeah, so I know that sounds terrible though, right? like so so so now we understand actually like the the the depth of or sort of the the How can I say this? How deeply rooted this belief isn't in you and the first question is like whether you're willing to Try to live a life where you're not in control whether you're trying whether you're willing to try to live a life where you could let other people love you and like it doesn't it doesn't surprise me that you don't feel loved because You know like love genuinely comes from another person. It's not something that you can control You can't manipulate someone to love you like true authentic love. I don't think you can really manipulate out of someone And and so if you're the only agent it doesn't surprise me that you're not able to kind of feel love because it's like You don't really know what that is. Like are you just manipulating them? Is that the way they're treating you that way? Like And you also have this sort of oh my god. Yes Yeah, but yes, so so in order for you to feel love you have to give people the opportunity to like have control Over the way that they treat you So your biggest Huh And now i'm oh that was you said it so perfectly God damn it when you just said like You know you If someone feels a certain way about you Do you do they feel that way because you went through leaps and bounds to kind of manipulate your image? Are you like it's almost like you're it's almost like i'm taking everyone in the world and and saying You don't have to have a first impression of me. Let me just go ahead and code in What I want you to think about me like so that you'll never get it wrong like that's but then If what if what if someone just hates you? Oh, this is terrible. So sky that's so I started this off with it requires courage On a level that you do have never experienced This is terrible thought. Yes, right. You have to you have to be willing to let them hate you Ah, oh no, no, no, no No, no, no, I I would rather think about existing and death times 10 than this. I know So it's it requires courage on an order of magnitude that you have never had. But what if they what if they hate me? But if I just was able to tell them a little about sky like me sky. Oh, okay. Listen to me What would it feel like so you're scared of hate but i'm gonna ask you another question What would it feel like if if you didn't manipulate someone? And they chose to love you instead If they actually said you know what despite all of your bs and with you just being you and without manipulating me I love you How would that make you feel? There would be a comma afterwards I say I love you now we're late for quidditch is what I would hear That's how crazy again it is to me. Like that's what I would hear like Oh, even though you didn't You know make me feel a certain way about you. I love you. Let's go win for griffin door. Like that is how absolutely impossible but it's not like it's not like i'm a monster or something it's that like I I don't even really like I mean, I hate myself. I mean many of us do we just don't really want to say it So it's like if I hate who I am well Well, i'm not gonna let Up like other people see this mess as for what it is Because then they'll hate me too. That's crazy. There's no way I have to show at least that I have the Desire And the will to change and be better. Otherwise, what's the point? Why even be loved like if you're not gonna love yourself is Doesn't make sense to me Damn, I must sound like a psycho No, I I don't think you sound like a psycho. I think you sound like someone who was abused and wasn't sufficiently loved when you were growing up That's what That's what when people are abused and don't have an appropriate home environment to get them through that abuse They end up sounding like you I don't think you're psycho. I think you're I think it's the only way that you learn how to survive This is this this all of these thoughts and constructions that you have are about survival Because the thought that someone could see you for who you are and accept you is mind-boggling And there's no fucking way that you're you're willing to risk it and because you never risk it You're never getting data to the contrary of your opinion. You've never given an opportunity for someone to love you So how can you possibly be loved because at this point you're just fake And and what i'm asking you to do requires a lot of courage it requires you to let someone see the real you And then let them make their own decision and then understand because it's devastating because like There's even a part of you that actually doubts that you're actually a piece of shit But you would rather sit in the comfort of the thought that you're a piece of shit Rather than risk the the chance that it could be wrong and then like you really know for 100 Because that's the same thing as like My channel is like I could put a hundred percent into my videos. I've never done that Yeah, I have because then you've got the slice of protection Right, right, right, and i'm not actually a failure. I just didn't give it my all Yeah, and then now it's like So sky this comes down it worked out to courage courage courage I don't care about what worked out. So you just have to decide are you willing to live a life where you are willing to risk it? Are you willing to be loved? Are you willing to be successful? Are you willing to fail? Are you willing to be rejected? This is the question you have to ask yourself Do you want to try to live a different way? I Don't know if I can And I I don't know as I am right now I think of myself as honestly like Disgusting yeah, like actually repulsive. Okay in in mind body everything so it's like Give Give yourself some time. Okay So the first thing is I think it's good that you're moving out and I think you're the more that you prioritize yourself You're going to build a little bit of confidence. I think it's actually a huge step forward that you're moving out The second second thing is that I do think you can repair your relationships and I think you could pay off your debt and stuff like that Not to say that I can Not not to say that that you know, that's a guaranteed or anything, but I I have I have faith in you And that's not just like because i'm just a generally good guy and I have faith in people I think if you're able to make money at some point in life generally speaking like you don't just randomly make like sure Winning the lottery is the exception But even being like on you like a youtube personality or whatever twitch personality like there's some something that resonated with your community That's like still there It's like a skill that you have and as long as you're able to kind of like pick it up and polish it off Like I think you'll be able to start generating revenue again. Maybe you won't maybe I have no idea but I think it's possible for you and that's like sort of an it like it's a scientific statement, it's not like a You know like a i'm a nice dude. Oh, yeah, I mean I I I've clearly demonstrated that I have the tools to do it Yeah, absolutely. So so I I think you can I think you can do this I think the the last thing and i'm gonna try to help you with this, of course But um, and we're gonna meditate i'm listening and i'm also taking notes because what you just said to me I I think you have to just be willing to like let yourself be wrong on all of this stuff Oh right Because because like and I think what you're gonna get is gonna be just as amazing as quidditch Like it's you're gonna be surprised like if you actually let yourself be loved by someone It's about as good as quidditch You know a flying broom I would take a flying broom over love free Yeah Well, i'm just saying like I see what you mean though, like I mean, I'm sure it's an amazing feeling so, I mean i'd say that that just just for the sake of Seeing what that feels like. I think you've got to try it so you can report back and let us know How do I okay last question? What is what do you feel is the first step to trying that good? Assuming I would we're gonna meditate that's gonna be that's gonna be number one. Okay What is we're gonna meditate i'm gonna show you we're gonna do the first step right now Oh shit, okay Yeah, sorry, no procrastination. No, darn Okay, so sky I want you to sit up straight Okay, let me get In the nam chair. Okay. I'm ready Okay, close your eyes and you guys can do this at home Especially if you resonate with sky because i'm gonna ask some weird questions So sky you're busted right like fundamentally Agree Well when you say busted What do you do you mean like In a good way like you're like you're broken good. You're amazing. No, no, no, you're like a piece of crap Ah, yes, right that one incapable of being loved ah That was well, you're fundamentally broken and unfixable So I want you to tell me I want you to try to find where that comes from in your body So where does that feeling arise from like what is it that you? Can you find the like the fundamental brokenness within you the part of you that is unfixed does it live anywhere in in your being? My weight, okay All of it Yeah, I would say my weight, okay That's the only that's the only thing I can see. Okay. Okay So are you saying that kind of intellectually or you're saying or you kind of like you're feeling the heaviness of your body and you're like Yeah, this is like kind of a busted thing it I mean I could even use this as an example like Just a minute ago You kind of readjusted yourself on a chair and you stood up a bit and we could see your body I never make a situation where that's possible. So it's like I'm already Frame one manipulating the way that I look just take selfie angles. There's an entire show on cat fishing like the the idea of Being someone else or letting people see what only what they need to see. Okay, is like Stop talking for a second And and where do you so all of the thoughts that you just had? Can you find them somewhere in your body? Even if it's in your mind, that's fine Like I know that sounds kind of weird but like just just feel the person that you are which is fundamentally someone who is Who is in control of the world and incapable of love? That's the person that you are agree or disagree. Is that the person that you are right now? Yes, agree that's sky right and you are sky strongly agree. Okay. Now we're going to try some ohm chanting Which we did I think earlier in the week, but for those of you who were here, so We're gonna try to practice this again, so i'm gonna teach you how to chant ohm So this is going to be kind of weird and hopefully we don't blow everyone's ears off So ohm is composed of three syllables. Ah ooh, and um Okay, so i'm gonna chant once And you go through all three of those sounds over the course of one breath Ah Oh Okay, so remember that sa chanting is about not sound it's about vibration Vibration So I want you to feel the vibration in your body as you chant those sounds, okay So we're going to do it together And the sound is ah, ah Perfect yeah, very good. So let's do it together. So deep breath in Oh It's tight Whoa, bigger breath. Let me hear it. Let me hear it again big deep breath Uh Okay, yeah, okay, so I want you to spend longer on the ooh So big deep breath as big as you can take and stretch it out as long as you can One more time Uh Good much better. Yeah. Now I want you to increase the vibration Okay, one more time we'll do it together Ah Good again If you're watching at home you all should do this too, yeah, this is actually tight, okay, let's do it again big breath in Four more breaths Ah Big deep breath Um two more make them count Last one give it give it everything you've got Oh What the hell So And I want you to just feel the person that you are And try to get a sense of like what's wrong with this person Sort of feel The remnants of vibration Just feel like how do you how does it feel right now? It's like It feels like um Like my like i'm closing my eyes obviously I Feels like my mind is like shaving off pieces of my mind. It's weird like good Keep shaving buddy. It's like yeah It's just Yeah, uh When you said is this you said is this person terrible or something? Yeah I was just gonna answer no Yeah, it was weird. Yep, but very weird Right. It's a new sensation to not be a terrible person right So I guess it is possible So it's not about whether it's possible It's about trying okay, so sky I want you to start by doing this practice every day for three to five minutes Nine breaths nine rounds three to five months you think three to five minutes Oh shit. Okay So nine breaths and just sit with the person that you are before the practice It's a different sky from where you are after the practice The feeling won't last long, but I want you to have an experience of yourself where you aren't A piece of shit and that starts for a few moments after meditation just sit with that person to hang out with that person Yeah Okay, okay, i'm down. Okay. All right good questions before we wrap up for the day Yeah, are you um god? No, like Ah, then that's it. That's all I have to ask I I appreciate well, this is no as usual No, if I was if I was god then I couldn't actually help anyone but as it turns out i'm human And so the cool thing about being human is that the experiences that I have I can actually like The things that happened to me in my growth in life Act is actually applicable to other humans Right, so that's kind of cool. Oh Shit. Well, I uh, I look forward to our next meeting. This is actually amazing. I'm glad you feel that way Yeah, I uh, yeah, okay, so i'm gonna do that nine breaths every day. Yep Because I think we're at the when it comes to me and my unfixable problems the finish line is the what we brought up earlier And i'm looking forward to at least trying What I can to Do it i'll do i'll do whatever it takes. I'll try good I'm i'm very happy to hear that So just give it your best and don't beat yourself up when you inevitably screw up Which is okay because screw-ups are a normal part of life and it doesn't mean that they can't be fixed So if you miss a day on meditation, don't throw the baby out with the bath water Just pick it up the next day or in two days or in three days pick it up when you can when you're able to And I don't know where you live. But if there's any kind of meditation center that you can go to that could help a lot I'm gonna put that too, um, because it helps to be in a community with other people who meditate Just to keep you on on on track, okay Yeah. All right. Thanks a lot sky Good job. Thank you. Thank you as usual. Thank you for today. Yeah, man. I mean I have a lot to think about Yeah, i'm not willing to give up hope on you yet And i'm glad that you're you're willing to entertain the idea that maybe you are fixable Well, i'm gonna go shower and cry i'll talk to you soon, you know, have a good cry my friend take care Thank you. See you. All right