 Happy birthday, Dr. K. Hey, Dr. K. Hey, Dr. K. Happy birthday, Dr. K. Happy birthday, Dr. K. Hi, Dr. K. Hey, Dr. K. I wanted to wish my favorite boomer happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. Hi, Dr. K. Happy birthday. Happy escape from Vagina Day. It's Star Sleeps. I was on one of your community streams. It's Sol from the former Gifted Kids interview. It's Bob from the NoFap stream. Hi, it's Zenk. I'm Ted from the Gifted Kids interview. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. I'm Zek. It's Bob from the NoFap stream. Hi, it's Zenk. I'm Ted from the Gifted Kids stream. It's Flo. It's Provided from the LSF stream. Hey, this is B from the Burnt Out Gifted Kids group. Hey, it's JT from the Falling Behind stream. My name is Zoryan from Life After I Called. I just wanted to say thank you for everything that you do after that stream and after a few months in coaching. I actually came back to college and it's all your fault, so thanks. I hope you're having a wonderful birthday at the International, no less. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I just want to wish you a happy birthday. It's incredible to see how far Healthy Gamer has come and comforting to know that it comes from a genuine place. To everyone in the community, keep being awesome, keep being unique, and keep supporting each other. People love. You have given me clarity about how to understand my addictions. Thanks a lot, man. Happy birthday. Thank you for making me realize that I need help and also for being one of the people who provided that help to me. Every time I watch stream, I feel like I get a little better at talking to myself when I feel guilty. Thanks so much for that. Thank you so much for encouraging me to bring more money to you. Thank you so much for encouraging me to bring more money to you. Thank you so much for encouraging me to bring more money to you. Thank you so much for encouraging me to bring more money to you. Thank you so much for encouraging me to bring more mindfulness into my life. And it really meant a lot to me when you said that I was good just the way I am. So yeah, thank you. A lot of the knowledge you've shared has definitely stuck with me when it comes to my day to day. So thank you. Thank you for cultivating this incredible community. I think I speak for a lot of people when I say you've really helped me get through this past year and a half. Thank you for teaching me to be more compassionate towards myself. See you when I see you. My life really has changed for the better thanks to your input. So thank you for all that you do. And you helped me accept myself without condition. Thank you so fucking much.