 And you're gonna understand that you were put on this earth for a reason and it wasn't a play fucking World of Warcraft That's just a shame Okay, so can you tell me what should I call you first of all I'm surprised that you actually pronounce My username correctly the first time because a lot of people struggle with it But you can call me John or Joro whichever I prefer Joro. I Feel like I know a lot of John's but I don't know a whole lot of Joro's and you seem like a Joro to me Yeah So tell me a little bit Joro, so tell me a little bit about what we're gonna be talking about today And how we can be helpful to you Well, I had notes I Guess Trying to turn from well try to turn the Computer addiction maybe to like more useful like turn Gaming and aimless browsing to something else because all my interests are basically on the computer anyway, okay And Because I have a lot of things available. I have my exercise back right there and like all kinds of things are like Within the hundred meter radius so like what's in a hundred meter radius We got a really Really nice like outdoors running Like track that goes through like a two kilometer radius in the woods. Okay we got like us Would be called like not a outdoor swimming pool, but like an indoor one. Okay, who's we? there's like well My family like where I live so you live with family Who lives with you at home? My parents, okay and Okay So you have a lot of stuff available to you, but you don't seem to take advantage of it Yes, and what I'm hearing from you is that you'd like to understand Why that is and maybe start changing that? Yeah, okay Let's go with that. Okay You say let's go with that is that what you were actually looking for or is there something else? Yes, yes to the first part, okay Anything else Hmm That's it, okay, so tell me what what would you like to do? Like I like concretely or like current moment or Like what do I want to be in the future let's do all three oh boy Well, I always wanted to be good at something absolutely I also want to feel fulfilled which I haven't had in a long time Okay, or felt long in a long time I've wanted to get into better shape. Okay, that's why I got the exercise bike And I want the career in something related to Electronics less computers, but okay That's that's it I guess that's it That's funny man That's it as if like it's a small thing. Yeah Yeah, so so What's getting in the way of you? accomplishing all of those things Me That's a very Zen answer. What does that mean? I mean Me as in You My thoughts, okay, I guess what does that mean your thoughts? Well, for example today I It occurred that we needed to get groceries I Acknowledged this and I knew that yes, I could go well not I thought I could go that going there would be easy Okay That I could do it that it's in my possibilities in my Capabilities to do it but I proceeded to just stay and just like stew on it And while I'm thinking like Yeah, it's just you want it and Eventually like it just go away because I kind of gave up on it, okay So give me one moment so I'm gonna pull twitch chat real quick and I'm gonna ask you to Joro what I want to know is do you want to talk about do you want to approach this from a neuroscience perspective a psychology perspective or a spiritual perspective because we can do all three and Let's see what twitch chat wants to You What do you think Joro, what do you want? I mean if I'd had to pick Nero and psychology, but okay I'm fine with all okay, so When was the last time you had a good day A good day Actually there was a There's one day it was two weeks ago It was It's like everything aligned up like I Didn't have to do Like I was alone at home my mom was out in another town my dad was at work and It's like everything just flowed like okay, there's like no there was no like Stops in what I was going to do that day. Okay like Very very important observation, right? So what you're saying is that you went from the first productive thing to the second productive thing to the third productive thing to the fourth Yes, okay. Yes. I'm the same way. So the question becomes Which one of those things is the most important? Hmm What do you think do you understand my question I Think I might have forgot what I said, okay I Think the most important part would be just the Like that there's no Interruptions in it. Okay, like excellent So when is the most critical interruption? I Know it's kind of a weird question, huh? Pardon so like It's sort of a read my mind question So I think like the first thing that I want you to think of is when you wake up in the morning That's the most important interruption Right, so you're kind of like the first thing that you do in the day is gonna set the tone for the remainder of your day Right, you're saying that like like once you did one like if you've done nothing and you try to do something that's really hard Yeah, if you've done something, is it easier or harder to do something else? easier Absolutely, right? So like if you've done two things, is it easy or hard to do the third thing? Easier most of the time the time right so if we think about the fourth thing like at some point We're like the 10th thing may be hard the 11th thing may be really hard the 12th thing may be really hard But the second thing is easier than the first one The third one is maybe about as easy as the second one. Does that make sense? Yes. So like which one is the critical thing? The first one absolutely So I don't want you to think about your inability to do so when you look at your own I don't want you to think about your inability to do so when you look at your life you think about okay Like I am unable to do ten things today. I can't exercise on the bike. I don't use the walking path We talked some about career things like that That's you and so what happens at the end of the day like you feel bad about yourself because you fucked up ten things There were a thousand things you didn't do first thing you need to understand is that you have one battle to win every day That battle is the first one So like if we look at strategically the days that you've done a good job like what was it it's just somehow you magically So we're going to forget about two three four five six seven eight nine and ten Something magical happened that allowed you to do the first thing and the cool thing is like once you do the first thing It becomes easier to do number two three and four. So what we're going to try to figure out is how can we structure your life? So that like doing stuff is easy for you instead of doing stuff is hard for you does that make sense Yeah, what I want to start to get uh into now is like what is the difference we're going to define a couple of terms, okay? Okay, what is motivation? How are we going to define motivation and twitch chat can help you I mean for me it kind of blends in together with willpower somewhat. Okay, let's talk about that. So Blends together so define motivation for me Um Okay, so feral cat is saying what keeps you doing tasks even if you don't want to but need to So what's the motivation for you? I'd say like the Like the source of energy that you use to push through things Okay, so let me ask you something if I Need to use the restroom and I go and use the restroom. Would you say that that is motivation? Yes, yes, okay if I need to use the restroom and I don't use the restroom what would you call that? You do you see okay That's good. But in terms of language like so The first thing that I want people to understand is like motivation is what we're naturally inclined to do Right, like that's that's what it means motivation is an energy In a particular direction Like Like if I want to if i'm hungry and I have a choice between a hamburger and a salad Like what am I motivated towards eating? Like what do you think I guess the hamburger Probably right I guess the hamburger Guess the hamburger Probably right so I want you guys to understand that like motivation is like when you did numbers two three four and five You felt motivated to do them that day, right? You didn't actually have to try very hard to do numbers two three four and five you felt like doing it Yeah, so motivation comes from within And willpower is actually the exact opposite What is willpower? Conscious effort Conscious effort conscious effort. Yes to do what? To do the thing you weren't motivated to do absolutely Right So now we've got a couple of different options we can increase your willpower Or we can cultivate your motivation Those are two different things. Do you understand that Joro? Yeah. Yeah What are you thinking you look like you're thinking a lot yeah I'm thinking which one is more beneficial. Yeah, so we'll get to that right. Which one do you think is more beneficial? I Mean with if with the motivation part if I have um if I get that first step then in that case it would be Better but with willpower it would be easier to get to the first step sometimes Yeah, absolutely. So we're going to talk about both of those now. We're going to talk about a couple of other things What is discipline? Um Self-rule yes, okay, so that's very good self-rule implies that There is a part of you that So self-rule implies that you are not one thing Right, your mind is actually a couple of different things that are fighting against each other so the way that we're going to try to help you out is by understanding what those different things are and what are the ways that you can like End up creating action So one way is motivation one way is willpower So a lot of gamers feel like they're not motivated. Do you feel like you're not motivated? When the first thing that came to mind is yes good what's the second thing that came to mind my friend? Kind of So it's like first first thing I thought was yes, but then it started to like Okay, am I so let's think about this for a second When you when you had this thought that like you need to get groceries from the grocery store You call that a lack of motivation, right? What do you do instead? Stay at home, yeah and do what? Stay at home. Yeah and do what be specific? Stay on the computer and do what on the computer play a video game watch youtube. What is it? Kind of all Okay So the first thing I want you to understand is that like like what is that? What is it that keeps you at the computer? I Keeps me. Yeah, is it motivation? Is it discipline? Is it willpower? Is it laziness I don't think it's laziness What is yeah, so we're going to redefine laziness, right? Because all gamers think they're lazy. You're not lazy You're motivated to stay at the computer. That's what I want you to understand You have a natural internal drive that is keeping you in your computer chair, right? That's why we have to start by defining things You have a desire to sit in the computer chair. You have a you're motivated to actually sit in the computer chair The first thing that people need to understand is that you don't lack motivation. Your motivation is just in a direction that you don't want it to go Does that make sense and if we really think about how stuck you are because you sound stuck to me Like if I had to diagnose you with a problem, it's stuckness Very much so if we think about like Stuckness is actually hard to attain Because there's a certain like stubbornness. It requires a lot of energy to move you away from this place Which tells me that there's a lot of gravity pulling you towards this place Does that make sense Like we have to think about like the mind sort of mathematically and if I like so for example I love my wife. I'm motivated towards being in the marriage So it's going to take a lot For me to like think about divorcing her Does that make sense? Yes, like the harder it is to pull you away from something the more motivated you are towards it So the first thing we've got to understand is that like it's not that you're lazy It's actually that some part of you is highly motivated to stay where you are right now And until we like understand and realize what that is and how it works. It's going to be really hard to move forward You can use willpower And by the way, I would define discipline Is a consistent use of willpower over time Does that make sense yeah, okay, what's a habit So Use of discipline No Actually the exact opposite so when something becomes a habit Motivation discipline and willpower are all separate from habit So habit is something that you do automatically without being motivated Without being disciplined without using willpower it's a habit Right. So like just as an example, like when I use the restroom I wipe myself, right That's like it's habitual when I brush my teeth I have a particular pattern when I wake up in the morning. I brush my teeth before I go to bed I brush my teeth. It's a habit. It doesn't require willpower for me to do or not much Does that make sense? So once we get to the place of habit Things are going to become relatively easy because it's sort of like autopilot Okay, so now i'm going to ask you what do you think it is where do you think motivation comes from Where does motivation come from Come from Um Through the need of something okay, that's part of it So, let me ask you this. What do you need to have a job in in computers right now? A job. Yeah, but not necessarily why do you need a job? You'd rather have a job and get get disposable income, okay? And eventually move out but okay, that's a long way. So hold on. Let's let's let me understand You'd rather have a job. But does that mean you need a job? Well, no Okay, I mean, yes Hold on. Let's think about this for a second. Do you need a job? Hold on. Let's think about this for a second. Do you need a job? Yes, why What's going to change tomorrow if you have a job A job Depending on the job I might have a type of Um, sure routine. So what's the consequence tomorrow if you don't have a job? That I don't have a job, yeah Okay, so that's like so we're going to replace the word job with the word yacht. You know what a yacht is? Yes, okay I need a yacht. Do you agree or disagree? Yes I agree you I need a yacht I need a yacht the way that you need a job, which means that i'd rather have a yacht than not have a yacht The consequence for me not having a yacht tomorrow is that I don't have a yacht Right, do you have a place to sleep tonight tomorrow if you don't have a job? Yeah, do you have food to eat tomorrow if you don't have a job? Yeah, you have something to occupy your time that you find mentally engaging if you don't have a job Yeah, why do you need a job i'm confused To get a sense of fulfillment, okay to To yeah, so like is that something that's going to happen tomorrow? No, okay unnecessarily when does fulfillment happen? Sometimes when I do things, okay, right so I want you to understand what's going on in your brain Joro Your brain is way smarter than you are Your brain recognizes what you need, right? Your brain says hey buddy. We need some food right now. Our blood sugar is low. Why don't you go eat something? Hey, buddy, we need a toilet right now. We have a bladder full of urine. Let's go take a piss Your your brain is telling you hey buddy. We don't need a job because we have everything that we need right here What do we need nothing you don't need a job You don't need a job And then what happens is like there's a part of your brain that weighs How important things are like so like your your brain is always like trying to weigh different things against it It's like different options, right? Like do I want to so for example like this bottle of water like I can be thirsty And the thirstier I get the more that I want to drink the bottle of water I'm gonna have to be thirstier for me to walk outside and get my bottle. Does that make sense? Like it availability exactly availability, right? So like when we think about behavior and motivation the availability of things the internal drive towards things And the expected reward all factor into whether I do something or I don't do something yeah, like if I Walked outside and I didn't know where to find water Like i'm not going to go down the street and start knocking on random people's houses and ask them for a glass of water. Why not? Because the expected reward is really low Right, like it's stupid like there is no way There's no reason why I would walk down the street and ask random people for glasses of water Because the expected reward is like so hard to fathom. Does that make sense? Yeah, it's like Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah, so What do you think the expected reward of finding fulfillment is? Like how do you think your brain computes that? I'm not sure absolutely either is your fucking brain. Your brain doesn't know what the fuck that means Like What is like you don't even know so how your here you are you're kind of telling yourself Hey brain, we need fulfillment and your brain's like your brain like figures a lot of stuff out for you And your brain is like, I don't know And then so then you wake up and then this is the part of your mind that says hey brain We need to do something today and then your brain says why do we need to do something? well We need a job for independence, but he's like you don't need independence like you've got independence right here You can sleep when you want to you can eat when you want to you can play games when you want to This is actually the perfect lifestyle and then you say no brain, but we need fulfillment And your brain says what is that? And then you say I don't know And the brain says Well, if you don't know what it is Then like Why do we need it? Like why would you want fulfillment when we can like play? Like what do you play? Uh recently wow, okay So like why do you need fulfillment when you can like do raids on wow? Like why like the brain understands and the brain understands what wow is they're like this is wow Like this is fun We can do this or we can go knocking on random doors to find fulfillment because how do you find fulfillment? I don't know right So it's like it's like It's like where can I dig for gold and find gold like that's my brain's going to be like that's a fucking waste of our time Finding fulfillment is a fucking waste of our time Okay So the first thing that I want you to understand joro is that the reason that you're not doing any of these things is because You don't need to Why do you want to be healthy what does that mean? To feel better do you feel bad better about myself? I mean Not all the time Yeah, right So your brain is like you start feeling bad And then you tell your brain you're like hey brain we need to go exercise so that we can feel good about ourselves Our brain says, you know, what's better than walking Back to like i'm at my office right now And my brain says, you know, what's better than walking to your office walking back to your house, which is three miles away For a glass of water is walking right outside or grabbing this bottle because you can walk three miles away for a glass of water Or you can drink the water in front of you So you tell your brain I want to exercise and the brain says why should you do all that effort to feel better when I can Make you feel better playing wow Like why do you like you can just play the game and you can just play the game and you can just play the game Like why do you like you can just play wow and like if you get that rogue dagger that you want you're gonna feel great Your brain is like that's true why I don't understand why you're trying to make my life hard that's what your brain is saying Right Yeah, what do you need? What are you motivated towards What do you need joro right now right now, I don't know yeah i'll tell you the answer is fucking nothing You don't need anything What do you need tonight? I Kind of already ate okay. Yeah, so it sounds like you're in europe or something scandinavia. I don't know. Where are you finland finland? Okay? So you already ate so like what are you gonna do tomorrow? Yeah? Wake up Wake up eat Do the dishes and then come here. Yeah, okay. Why do you do the dishes? Because I try to okay now we're getting somewhere right Because for a moment I got excited because I thought maybe if you didn't do the dishes no one would And that's why we see why you do the dishes But it sounds like someone does the dishes if you don't do them That's that's correct right and that's why you try to do the dishes you try Because you tell your brain you're like hey brain Let's do these dishes and then your brain says why the fuck do you should we do these dishes if we don't do them? Someone else is going to do them Why are you making me walk five miles for a glass of water when we don't have to we don't have to do the dishes And the dishes will do themselves Your brain is an incredibly efficient or a very efficient or a very efficient or a very efficient or a very efficient organ incredibly efficient You're trying to just it's like you're just like hey brain like let's just Let's do all of these really difficult things that are completely useless and your brain is like why the What are you talking about, man? I don't have to do dishes All I have to do is go and play wow like I don't understand why you're trying to like ruin this lifestyle that i've built for you You enjoy it lightning we hang out So now we're going to come to earlier I asked you like what what do you want right and you said you want a career You want to exercise? You want to move out one day? Those are desires You understand that So we're going to talk for a second about desires and I know you guys were asking for psychology So we'll get to that. I mean, I'm sorry I'm sorry. I'm doing spirituality and neuroscience because that's what I feel like doing today. Yeah. Yeah, but what is a desire? Where does it come from? So like what's an example of a desire Wanting something absolutely, so what's something that you want? Like I want a yacht money, right We're talking about yachts and twitch chat wants yachts too. Where does the desire of wanting a yacht come from where does that originate? It's a thing of value. Yes, it is a thing of value Where does the desire for a yacht originate when did I first desire to have a yacht? It's kind of a weird question Yeah, yeah, uh, it's really basic but it's really hard Okay So we've got we've got an answer from lucky death Which is when I saw someone have one so i'll give you guys the answer, right? So let's think about it this way. Have you guys ever been walking down the street? And you smell something like the smell of like someone frying something or like the smell of grilled meat and you're like man I want to eat that Has that ever happened to you where you smell something cooking and you're like, that's not that smells delicious I want to eat that So where does that desire come from? Yeah, like cookies If you're baking cookies, right? Where does that desire come from? Where does it originate? Ah driving past restaurants Okay, so So like when you're driving past a restaurant or you smell something Where is that desire originating from? This is really important to understand Hunger is incorrect doesn't originate from hunger Okay, what do you think jorah well if well if it isn't hunger And it isn't a form of me. So yeah, so hunger comes from within so we're going to talk about hunger in a second Right, but a desire to satisfy your hunger in a particular way is separate from the feeling of hunger you with me Okay, yeah, so where does where does my desire originate from? Okay Are you are you looking at twitch chat Look I have it open on my other monitor, but i'm not looking at it. Look at it Scroll through it and then let me know what you think sounds sounds good We're gonna make this a group session today You Right, I guess the experience of having it, okay, that's one that's one place have I ever owned a yacht though No, ah, right so it can't just be the experience of having it So like this is the thing like the twitch chat and you jorah I think the biggest problem that people have is they don't understand how this fucking stuff works Like what is the difference between motivation desire willpower discipline habit? Where do desires come from? Why do I want to do something one day and I don't want to do something the other way like you guys have to understand How this stuff works and it works. It's like it's like math. It's scientific So you're absolutely correct that sometimes a desire comes from a memory that's one of the origins of desire Right because if i've eaten a chocolate chip cookie once I can remember What that tasted like and I can want one again? But in the case of a yacht i've never had a yacht but I still want one when Let me put it this way You know, there are there are people in like popua new guinea who are like tribes that have not like interacted with civilization Right like these aboriginal people do they want yachts? Maybe no, they don't because they don't know what a fucking yacht is Okay Okay, so like When do they when can one day the aboriginal person like what has to happen for the aborigine to want a yacht To know it exists and how does that happen? It says it absolutely right so now i'm gonna go through twitch chat and i'm gonna show you guys something. Okay so Digital dude says when I saw other people had a yacht yes cookies. How do we want cookies? Right One person says outside sense of smell Wanting something that you know, you don't have past memories Okay, you see it with your eyes So where do desires come from So When was the first time that someone wanted a chocolate chip cookie like imagine like there's a five-year-old kid What has to happen for them to want a chocolate chip chip cookie? Absolutely, right or smell it What Or taste it like I have a two-year-old and she doesn't want things until I put them in her mouth It's like if I give her a bite of chocolate chip cookie. She's like, oh, that's delicious. Can I have more? but she doesn't want it until She has a sensory experience of it. So the first thing to understand is that desires come from the senses The yogi said that the indrias which are the sense organs are the origin of desire So you cannot have a desire without a sensory experience Or a memory of a sensory experience, but the root of desire comes from your senses So I think you're and do desires So the other thing about desires is that they're not powerful motivators because desires like availability is like very very important for desires to affect our motivation Like the simplest way to put it is like I will eat a freshly baked chocolate chip cookie every day Why don't I eat freshly baked chocolate chip cookies every day joro? Because you don't have them every day right and there there are a lot of work to make I if you put a freshly baked chocolate chip cookie made from scratch in front of me every day. I will probably eat it But Even though I want to eat the chocolate chip cookie, it doesn't affect my motivation enough to like bake them every day Does that make sense? Yeah, so then the question becomes if our desires are not like a good source of motivation What is a good source of motivation? Like if I can't even motivate myself to do something enjoyable Like eat like i'm not even willing like even though a chocolate chip cookie is good Why do I Even though it brings me pleasure, why do I not like get up off my ass and do it like it's a positive reward, right? You with me But it's hard to do so. Let me give you another example like what is um What is the one of the most like give me some examples of some of the most unpleasant stuff That you've done That I've done or experienced That i've done or experienced that you've done Um I mean does pain count like physical like actual like something going through or so so Is there any pain that you've undergone that you would do again? Like have you ever experienced Yeah, pain in your life that if you had to go back in time and you could choose to do it or not do it You would choose to do it again Yes, give me an example So It's like on second thought thought maybe not but okay has anything ever unpleasant happened to you That if you could go back in time you would choose to do that again Yeah, like what Is Uh, I got a spinal fluid like taken out like with a needle was unpleasant. Yeah Why would you do it again? Because it helped me get a diagnosis, okay. Why is that important? Because otherwise I wouldn't have known why is it important to know Because it's not nice to know Okay nice to not know Yeah, so I I get that in in theory Okay. So let me put let me put it to you this way So a couple weeks ago, my kid was sick And she threw up on me Do you think that I like being thrown up on Do you think I regret her throwing up on me It's kind of a weird question, right Maybe yeah, so like I didn't want it to happen. But if I had to do it again I would absolutely let let her throw up on me again Right, like I was holding her. I was rocking her to sleep and she threw up on me So if I had to go back in time, I would choose it again why I Mean what would be the other option? Yeah, so so okay So titch 2020 vomit party looks like I lost you guys. So like sometimes in life we do unpleasant things Right. We do things that like so if we think about a cookie the reward from that cookie is like a positive thing Like it's a pleasant thing. Yeah, and even though the outcome is positive We still have a positive thing. So if we think about a cookie Like a positive thing like it's a pleasant thing. Yeah, and even though the outcome is positive we still can't find the motivation to do it What i'm trying to suggest is that sometimes we do things that are actually like negative rewards And we're able to find the energy or motivation to do it Do you have siblings euro? Yes, too. How old are they? Uh two and four years older than me, okay So let me ask you this if I pointed a gun at you joro, what would you do? Run absolutely if I pointed a gun at your sibling, what would you do? Probably like try to help them out of the situation why what's different? A gun is a gun. Why don't you run away? Because an important thing is on the line absolutely absolutely right So now we get to the crux of it which is what matters to you joro You My life Okay I think that makes sense. What else matters to you? Close relationships, okay, or any of those in jeopardy? No So joro, you're a pretty thoughtful guy. So I think you think a lot before you answer which is fantastic At the same time. I think the basic problem that you have Is that everything that like there's nothing that matters to you that coincides with what you want Like so you want to move out of the house. You want to get a good job, but you don't you know It doesn't matter to you Like you're not willing to put yourself in the path of a gun for any of those things Does that make sense? Okay, so like the problem here is that like you're willing to It's hard enough to to bake cookies just to eat a cookie even though that's a positive reward but real strength Comes not from desires but from values Desires come from our indrias or our sense organs. They come from the outside values like If we think about like why you would try to help out your siblings if a gun was pointed at them That has nothing to do with the senses Your relationship with your your siblings is not like it's not like one day you saw them like you see them and then you Kind of like know who they are, but your your relationship with them is not like based on an isolated sensory experience In fact, like if you think about love love is not like it doesn't come from the indrias. It doesn't come from the sense organs Where do where does love come from? Like mathematically Um, where do you feel love? My brain okay. Yeah, that's a scientific answer the answer i'm looking for is like within My brain, okay. Yeah, that's a scientific answer the answer i'm looking for is like within right so there's some feelings Which like like so if we think about the indrias the indrias are the way in which the outside world enters us And those are not a good that's where desires come from they come from the outside world But values come from within and values are what can overcome all of the negative stuff Like i would walk and knock on every door in my neighborhood if my daughter was thirsty and I had no water I would do that in a heartbeat Right if I if I ran out of water and she like hadn't had anything to drink for 24 hours Then I would go and do that So I think your basic problem joro is that you don't have anything to care about you don't care about anything You want stuff? But you don't care It doesn't mean anything to you Because your needs are met What are you feeling right now Not sure I can't tell because of your glasses, but are you tearing up Maybe slightly So, what are you feeling? Tell me what you feel in your body It started when I said you don't care about anything I don't know if it's If it's guilt or shame Yeah What are you ashamed of Look at me jora What are you shamed of Kind of myself yeah You know what what if I had to guess What was in your mind right now? The best word I can think of is everything Everything How did you get to be this way When did this happen to you You How long have you felt this way Because for a while yeah It's been so long since like I would even guess that you don't even really remember what it feels like To not feel like this It's been so long And you've been stuck for a really long time and you don't know how to get out Of You Twitch chat and I are going to help you. Do you believe you can be helped? Really So some time ago you said it's been a long time since I felt like I had purpose in my life When was the last time you remember having purpose in your life I Can't even remember okay, so you have a lot of work to do jora Right Yeah And it's got to start with reflection It's got to start with understanding yourself. It's got to understand with what the fuck do you want to do with your life? Right the basic problem here is that you have no reason to get on the exercise bike You have no reason to go out and walk You have no reason to go get groceries So you really need to spend some time thinking about like what do you want like what do what do you want to Be like why why get a job? So joro, I think your most basic problem is I ask you what do you care what matters to you in life? Do you remember what your answer was? It was I guess myself and that's the problem Right, so this is the one thing that I just love about gamers is you fucking guys will do anything for anyone else If someone asks you for help like I i'm like 99 sure joro that if I was in finland and I was stranded and I sent you a text message And I said hey joro, can you come help me out? You would drop whatever you were doing and come and help me There is no doubt in my mind that you would do that I can tell I can tell just by looking at you And I think the basic problem here is that like You feel shame and guilt for yourself and you feel like you don't have You're not worth a whole lot because you haven't done a whole lot. So you're not worth helping But somehow we have to connect to that part of you that is like good and like Helps people like, you know get their gear and wow Right Because like I think you're a good person and wow like wow lets you be a good person And the problem that I see is that like I don't see an opportunity in your life for you to be a good person So it's gotta start there you've got to stop living for yourself And start living for something else for someone that you love or people who need your help Right, so I ate a fucking salad for lunch I don't like salads But I'm getting old and I have kids and I have to be around like I want to watch them graduate Like I'm not going to eat a salad. I'm going to eat a fucking quesadilla But my because of my kids I'm going to eat a salad So you're talking about motivation. We're talking about willpower talking about discipline. We're talking about desire What we're not talking about is dharma Dharma is the sanskrit word for duty or responsibility And you can we can spend as much time as we want to Helping you psychologically by talking about yourself Helping you psychologically by talking about your shame and stuff like that and we can do that if you guys want But I think the basic problem here is that you don't have a reason To get on the exercise bike So this is what I want you to imagine I don't know if this is going to work or not because I don't know you that well But joro, I want you to understand that like you're an individual and that in your life There are going to be people that you meet And that someday like the people that you meet are going to need your help You don't know who it's going to be. You don't know when it's going to be That there are people out there that in the grand scheme of time are completely irrelevant But that one day you're going to be walking down the street and someone is about to step in front of a car And you're going to like pull them Back onto the sidewalk so they don't get hit this kind of random shit is going to happen Someone's going to be hungry. Someone's going to lose their car keys Someone's going to need to use your phone That the world exists and is full of humans and you need to help them because if you don't pull that person off Off the street, they're going to get hit by a car And the problem is that like you need to prepare yourself for those moments You don't know what kind of help you need to provide you don't know when it's going to be or who it's going to be But you have to prepare yourself Because I do believe that there are some people in this world only you can help Does that make sense? So how are you going to prepare? I'll tell you So you're going to wake up tomorrow morning and you're going to go for a walk That's how it starts The first thing you do Take a piss brush your teeth before you eat anything go for a walk If you eat first thing in the morning grab something and then take it with you eat outside. How cold is it? Is it really cold? Okay, okay, I like cold you're gonna start by doing that You're gonna do that tomorrow? Okay, the other thing that I want you to do is message me on discord After you do it tell me before you leave and when you get back I may be offline but message me anyway And what i'm gonna do on sunday i'm gonna stream again on sunday and i'm either going to praise or shame you in front of the internet I'm gonna say joro. I got a message from joro. He went for his fucking walk And then you're gonna do the next thing And you're gonna understand that you were put on this earth for a reason and it wasn't a play fucking world of warcraft That's just a shame The problem here is that you don't realize like the biggest problem here joro is that you think you're worthless Like there's no point in doing anything if you're worthless But if you actually have the capacity to help people and make a difference like you've got to You know like you can't stop a gun if you're made of paper like there's no point But you have flesh and blood and bone which means that you can step in front of a gun and you can like save your your siblings You can do that If you made a paper, it doesn't fucking matter right now. The problem is you think you're made of paper. You don't think you can make a difference That's your problem Second problem is you don't know what you want We talk about desires, but like you don't know what you care about like what do you care about? Right, so this is like we we have this exercise in discord, which I think is brilliant. I don't know if you guys have read this stuff but like Can I just read this for a second? I want to read some of the stuff to you guys This stuff is great Oh you posted beautiful Oh you posted beautiful This is you Okay, now we're talking okay you ready joro Yeah, okay. We're gonna talk about this. Hold on What is wrong with the world so good job joro dude, that's just fucking fantastic There's an increased amount of misinformation in the modern world Which causes people to make misinformed decisions and have long-lasting effects on themselves and sometimes many others Related to this misinformation is people's lack of purpose Being drawn into bubbles of comfort and believing in conspiracy theories without thinking about them sound like anyone, you know, joro Bubbles of comfort and lacking purpose Does that sound familiar buddy Yeah People fight over each other's political views and religious beliefs, which is in my opinion not a fight worth having Society is not caught up with the technology of or social climate copyright Roses screwing companies and artists over the security and the privacy of civilians has worsened in the online age Even though there are very simple fixes to many of the problems only to be declined by incompetence or greed The way media portrays so many things violence sexuality body economy technology Incorrectly is harmful to younger adults and even children Companies use every way they can to get Into a consumer's pocket oftentimes even taking immoral or illegal means as well Public health care is a joke in many countries with long que times and insane costs Causing even more people to avoid professional health care entirely mental health isn't taking serious. It isn't taking serious care Mental health isn't taking serious. It isn't taken seriously. Do you take your mental health seriously? Yeah, i've been in therapy for six years, okay Not sleeping is seen as bragging rights I stayed up all night playing. Wow Humanity is not taking enough action to prevent Or slow down climate change and global warming And some even deciding to deny it and not believe the overwhelming evidence that is presented to them comes back to misinformation, right? The ocean is filled with plastic not literally so many species have already gone extinct thanks to pollution and bad recycling There's still wars being fought people are still Forced to leave their home countries due to conflict or corrupt governments threatening their well-being lives and often Leaving many people to their own devices and a possible eventual death Okay, joro so now comes the last question what are you gonna do about it? This when I read this that when I read this I think that the world there's so many problems that are so big That it can't be fixed And you know why these problems seem so big Because people like you are fucking sitting at home playing wow It's not a joke I mean, I meant it to be funny and also harsh Right. So I think that there's something my sense is that this is this is like There's something here that you can actually do. I don't know if you can bring extinct species back to life I don't know if you can fix health care. That sounds like a very different trajectory But I do think there's something about misinformation and misinformed decisions that you can over the course of the next year actually do What do you think You Yeah, yeah, right and if you don't do it who's gonna do it You're gonna leave it up to fucking twitch chat the chat is gonna do it Can we count on maybe maybe I mean, it's either either somebody else or most likely nobody. Yeah Right So mahatma gandhi said be the change that you want to see in the world Like people quote that shit all the time But I think like that's like a very positive way of saying if you don't do it no one will Like I got into this because I saw that there are a lot of mental health Their gamers are struggling with their mental health People don't know what what to do right So like I woke up one day and I said i'm gonna start talking to gamers over the internet And my lawyer said you could get sued Right Because someone is going to think that this is therapy and you don't have a doctor patient relationship And one day someone is going to kill themselves and their family is going to sue you Because you were pretending to be a doctor They said that this would be easier if you actually weren't a medical professional because you have a license and you have obligations But if I don't do it who is Right Like it's friday on november 15th 4 23 in in eastern time And like you're stuck If I don't talk to you right now joro who's gonna talk to you Like it's me that's it Right when I said one day you're gonna walk down the street And someone is about to step in front of a car and if you're not there to save them no one else will be You're that person for me. I'm walking down the street and I see you And I see you stepping in front of a car and if I don't help you no one else will And it's friday at 4 pm. I'm not working. I'm not with my kids right now. They're getting home from school I want to be with them. I want to play with them for a couple of hours You know why I want to play with them for a couple of hours So that four hours from now when I want to play dota I can do so with a clean conscience So that I can say to myself I spent time with my kids. I'm a good father. So now I deserve to relax Because the thing that tears me up more than anything is when I want to play dota more than I want to hang out with them And it would have been easy because I I could have played dota if I was like, you know if I was with them Does that make sense? But instead i'm talking to you And that's worth it because if I don't do it who will And this is the thing like jora like the world is not going to fix itself Just like you said, it's a bleak fucking place, man And there's misinformation and like but that's that's like so a buddy of mine this is kind of random but You know, there's like a lot of like if anyone's in the u.s I don't know if you guys like have been to the dentist but like Dentists make a lot of money and there's like no price transparency in dentistry This is going to be kind of completely random And so he decided that what he was going to do is like try to compare dental prices so that people could like Understand what they're getting billed for and understand what a dentist costs He ended up getting sued and shut down because dentists didn't like that They didn't like it that someone was publishing how much they charge But he was saying that people are just getting fucking ripped off And he just started a website because you can do that now you can do that Yeah And so jora what I want you to really do so I want you to start tomorrow by taking a walk And then I want you to think about like concretely like there's a problem of misinformation and try to break it down To the smallest thing you can like what is this like what what about misinformation? Like what what about misinformation we're going to talk about it now for five minutes Like what can you do about misinformation? Like what's the tiny thing? What's what's the misinformation that bothers you the most? Climate climate climate misinformation Yeah, okay So what are you gonna okay so like Are there websites out there like so what do you how do you think we address that? That's a tough one Informing okay Okay, this is what I want you to do jora I think the other problem here is that part of your motivation is because you don't have your environment like your environment isn't good I don't know who you spend your time with So this is what i'd like you to do after you go for a walk I want you to look up organizations that are that are fighting or advocating for climate change Like do a google search and then try to find like a dozen organizations and see if any of them have Do you have any like programming skills or web developing skills? Uh, yeah, okay. So what I want you to do is is look at those organizations And um Reach out like find which ones you like Okay And let me know if what i'm asking you is getting too difficult because i'm going to ask you for more and more Okay So like let me know when I hit the limit Yeah, and I want you to reach out to them and say hey I have this concrete skill set Do you guys have um any needs in this area? Do you have a resume? Uh, yeah, okay, so update your resume make it look good And then reach out to these organizations and say hey, do you guys have any needs in in these skill sets? You can contact hr or things like that And then if you're lucky, they'll pay you You But even if they don't make the world a better place don't tell them you'll work for free by the way Yeah, see if they have any needs under them. Yeah, what do you think about that? Sounds like a plan, okay, and what's gonna what's gonna fuck over your plan? It's a very simple thing Interruptions Which interruption is the most important? To start absolutely Right, so joro i'm going to publicly shame you Unless I get the following I want to know where you've done where you are with this. So i'm expecting four messages from you The first is you're going for a walk The second is your back. The third is you're going to do your google searches and the fourth is that you've sent at least one contact We'll see how far you get and you have okay. What time is it in finland right now like midnight? 30 minutes until it's midnight. Yeah, so you have 12 hours Can you do this in 12 hours Yes, yes you can So when are you going to save the world in the future? No, like stuff starts today, this is something that I want everyone to understand action can only take place in the present Like this is something that like once I understood this it blew my fucking mind Because I always tried to take actions in the future and one day I woke up and I realized you can't take actions in the future It's impossible. The only time action can be taken is in the present Impossible So you should sleep now if you can do you have trouble sleeping I have not narcolepsy, but I got medicine for it, but do you have trouble falling asleep? Well, sometimes but how about today are you gonna have trouble falling asleep today? Hopefully not. Okay. You guys want to do a meditation technique around sleep? Yeah Yeah Okay We're gonna need we're gonna need um joro to do something funny though. I is that a bed behind you? Yes, I need you to lay down on the bed and twitch chat. Can you guys lay down somewhere? If you guys can lay down somewhere that's ideal Doing good joro No, no, if you guys i'm not gonna put you to sleep i'm gonna make you feel energized And sort of put me to sleep. That's okay. You can do it after you wake if you just woke up. Can you hear me joro? Okay, yeah, okay so lay down So I want you guys to lay down and um Can you stretch your feet out completely joro? So stretch your feet out put your arms by your sides palms face up Let your ankles kind of fall to either side And I want you to feel the weight of your bed, I mean the body's sinking into the bed And I want you to notice that with each breath your body lifts off of the bed just a tiny bit And with each exhalation you sink back towards the bed And with each exhalation I want you to try to sink into the bed a little bit more So Imagine for a moment that the floor is someone's opening the door. They're all like what the fuck is going on? Oh, did someone turn off the light, okay So with each breath imagine almost like The floor beneath you or the bed or the couch is made of mud and you're kind of like sinking into it a little bit With each breath just relax a little bit more let your body fall into it And now we're going to begin the practice of yoga nidra So I want you to take a deep breath in and curl and tighten your toes curl curl curl curl curl feel the tension the energy and relax Take a deep breath in curl your toes and then flex your ankles tighten your ankles and toes together Both of them feel that tension and relax And then we're going to do the same thing again So take a deep breath in curl your toes tighten your ankles and then clench your calves Clench clench clench everything below the knee and tighten and hold it and relax Deep breath in clench your toes your ankles your calves and then lock your knees Lock both of your knees and everything beneath them feel the tension Lock both of your knees and everything beneath them feel the tension the warmth and relax Take a deep breath in curl your toes tighten your ankles lock your knees and then clench your thighs Tighten your thighs tighten your thighs and your hamstrings And relax Deep breath in clench your toes ankles calves knees thighs hamstrings, then clench your buttocks clench clench clench clench clench and relax Deep breath in curl your toes ankles calves knees quads hamstrings buttocks and then make fists fists feel the warmth the energy the heat in all of your legs and your lower body and hands and relax We're going to just take one plain breath breathe in And out Just notice the residual warmth And now we'll begin again Deep breath in toes ankles calves knees hamstrings quads buttocks fists and then twist your forearms Twist your forearms twist twist twist twist twist and relax Now we're going to go again deep breath in toes ankles calves knees hamstrings quads buttocks Fists forearms and then curl your biceps curl curl curl feel that heat and that energy Within you feel it tighten tighten everything hold and relax Let your arms come back by your sides And we'll begin again deep breath in toes ankles calves knees hamstrings quads buttocks fists forearms Biceps and then clench your abdomen clench your abdomen clench clench clench clench clench and out Breathe in Breathe in Toes ankles calves knees quads hamstrings buttocks fists forearms biceps abdomen and then chest curl your chest in Curl and feel that tightness that warmth that heat and relax Deep breath in Toes ankles calves knees legs buttocks Fists forearms biceps abdomen chest and then pull your back in imagine that you have an egg that you're trying to crack in The middle of your back and flex your back Tighten your shoulders and out We're going to take just plain breath Relax let yourself sink back into the floor Two more plain breaths with relaxation And now we'll begin again breathe in toes ankles calves knees thighs buttocks fists forearms biceps abdomen chest back And now clench your jaw tighten your forehead Clench your jaw tighten your forehead feel the whole body contracting and relax And now we're going to do the final round So I want you to take a deep breath in toes ankles calves knees legs buttocks fists forearms biceps shoulders abdomen chest back Jaw forehead feel the entire feel that wave of heat going entirely through your body as your muscles contract As they tighten you feel that energy that warmth that power And then let it all out relax You And now I want you to feel the person that you are This is you You Notice the peace The blackness residual warmth This is who you are And though there may be negative emotions within you there may be shame there may be fear There may be a feeling of powerlessness All of these things are just a little bit distant right now And sit in the place that you are And notice that you can come back here when you need to Come back here when you need to While life or your internal environment may be overwhelming This places your birthright Now let yourself start to come back To your senses Big deep breaths slow exhalations Let your body reawaken Let your mind reawaken Slowly open your eyes You When you're ready come on back You What's he doing chat what's he doing what do you guys see What is he doing he looks sleepy he does look sleepy, but what do you see Yeah, have we seen that in the last hour and a half I don't think so How do you feel joro Yeah Yeah, you can do this man you can do this Be that person that you were just a moment ago, that's the real you It's not this fuck-up who can't do anything in life. That's you he's calm centered capable Peaceful important not empty full of heat And power That's what you are But only if you do that first thing in the morning, right If you start off on the wrong foot if you walk past those dishes And you open up reddit or youtube You're a piece of shit You're allowed you're allowed to raid by all means raid just not first thing in the morning Give yourself a few hours. Take a walk eat something go do some groceries clean Cleaning is opi cleaning is opi. Absolutely, right? And keep us posted I will all right questions Questions No good good luck Thank you Twitch chat has faith in you my friend as do I Thanks people are wondering where you raid I'll post it on discord if yeah post on discord or whatever Okay, joro strong work today my friend You can turn your life around you just have to do it you just have to start Starts with dishes Starts one step at a time action is in the now. Okay Good luck and keep us in the now I'm I'm like hoping okay. I have hope so don't Don't ruin my day tomorrow. It won't be misplaced. That's what I like to hear Listen to that Fucking confidence, that's good, man That's not the person I was talking to half an hour ago. I'll take it good for you, buddy Good luck Thanks and save save the world because i'm going to be fucking streaming on twitch and playing dota so Okay, thanks a lot man. Good luck