 We're gonna start with bullious So for those of you guys don't know Bullious we had bullious on stream some time ago and frankly. I don't even remember what we talked about I just remember I told him to clean clean his fucking room and is playing maplestory. Come on, man Let's get started bullious Listen listen maple stories close the executables broken. Okay. I don't know what that means. Okay. Can you guys hear bullious? Yeah, he's the slow rolling deprived you guys remember that's right. Yeah, you got it. That's me Okay Can you guys hear him okay? Okay, then are we calling you bullious or did I ask you your real name before I? Mean it's Matt. So what do you prefer whatever? I don't know Bullies, I guess because I'm used to but okay so bullious Okay, so bullious There you go. What's the origin of the word bullious? I? Was playing a black desert and I was like, I don't know what to name this pet the stupid little bird thing so I was like I Don't know bullious. That sounds kind of cool. So I went with that and then I was like, all right You know what? This is my new username. I like it Okay, so bullious helped me understand a little bit about because it's been a while and I have a short memory And so I do remember that we talked about dark souls I remember that we talked about you being a slow-rolling deprived And that yeah, that's no way to go through life. I don't know what the fuck that means anymore so you why don't you you why don't you fill us in about what we talked about and Yeah, so like tell me like like what was your recollection of the last time we talked and My memory isn't the best either Maybe Moses But whenever you ask me that it comes up blank, so okay, that's okay So tell us a little bit about why you came on stream in the first place um Because I feel like I have a lot of like Personal issues that people can probably relate to or that can be solved by somebody who knows what they're doing such as yourself So yeah, so what do you think your your personal issues are? I've been thinking about it recently for this stream, and I think Too many things are like me being very avoidant. Okay, what happened? No, I'm very avoidant. I was thinking about it before stream, which is why I said oh Oh, okay being very avoidant and also like Was the other thing I can't remember okay? So I think avoidance is good enough, so let's talk about avoidance So why do you think you're avoiding Because I do things that are very avoidant like I'll put things off or like procrastinate or Like just Out of fear of conflict. I won't like do certain things okay, so Procrastination fear of conflict avoidance, so what why do you think? So fear of conflict sounds awfully psychological So fear of conflict sounds awfully psychological, so help me understand what you mean by like give me an example of how you're avoiding So like Like for example like cleaning my room or like doing yeah your room is a fucking mess I thought we talked about that last time Yeah, I know I it's been It's it's a reflection of my soul I guess it absolutely is you jest about that can I tell you a story Sure, okay, so I don't think I tell stories often on on on twitch on twitch But I do it a lot in my private practice so when I was at the monastery this place called an ashram There was this place called the quiet zone where there was like a monk or like a Swami who lived there and then After a couple like so it's kind of this part of the the ashram that you're not allowed to go But after being there for a couple of months, I was kind of Invited to join a class like they said like oh you can go and like learn from this dude Who's like, you know, he's like the real deal and so I would go out in the morning and and go to his his little hut and then I noticed that like Outside of his hut like next to his door there was like a plate a bowl a cup and a spoon that was leaning against the wall and just like drawing in the Sun and So every time I went out there there was just this like plate outside his hut You know, I was really confused by that. And so finally one day I I you know stopped being avoidant and I asked him I was like so I have a question maybe out of line Why is there a plate a bowl a cup and a spoon sitting outside your door? And so that he said that Yeah, you know despite all of my training unless I do my own dishes I can't do anything that day I have to clean my dishes and he gets like people who bring bring some food from the kitchen and stuff like that So he gets all those meals meals prepared and delivered and I guess he like writes and reads and meditates all day long So he's kind of like he's got like servants and stuff but at the end of the day, he just can't do shit unless he like does the dishes and I think bully is like if you if you want to really get your shit together You've got to clean so at the end of our conversation We're gonna do cleaning stream. You're gonna stream yourself cleaning Okay, okay, we're gonna do stream cleaning stream Sounds good. Okay, and everyone at home is gonna do cleaning stream too and it's gonna be the highest value content on Twitch Can I can we do that? Sounds good. Okay and there's a very simple principle in in in yogic thinking that like cleaning stuff cleans your mind and That's something about like the intention out like how focused you have to be to clean is like you have to think but you can't fully think Like you're not fully absorbed in it But it requires enough mental attention to where you your thought your mind can't spiral into negativity when you're cleaning You just can't do it Right. I feel like yeah, that's what happened last time. Yeah, so what happened last time tell us Like I felt Like kind of peaceful, yeah Yeah, so we're gonna actually you know, so at the end when we do our meditation We're gonna do two rounds of meditation the first round of meditation is gonna be five to seven minutes of cleaning and I'm gonna do that too, so I have a Okay, so we're gonna do this I want to show you guys something so this is my bookshelf and you see this You see that pile of shit. That's my shit pile. I have one too So I'm gonna clean too at the end of stream and I'm gonna clean my shit pile So we're all gonna do it together Okay Now my camera still did I should really stop doing that? Okay, but tell us about being avoided What do you mean by that this is really embarrassing but I'm gonna I'm gonna give you an example So like recently basically I Was kind of being avoidant in finding a job and also because I couldn't pay my rent and I was kind of avoiding my landlord yeah, and also asking for help from my parents because it's embarrassing and like I Feel pretty crappy about it. Yeah, I was like just happened this yesterday and it's like I feel like I can't control myself To a point where I can stop being avoidant and like not let things blow up in my face and then do something about it Yeah, so first of all that does sound embarrassing. I could imagine that You know you feel ashamed about your situation and so thank you for sharing and We're gonna try to help you through that Okay, so let's start with So you said you're avoiding your landlord I Got it. I got it paid now, but yeah, I was at the time. Okay, and and why were you avoiding your landlord? Because I didn't have the money to pay for rent and I was afraid of like Being mad and also like if I told my parents about the situation they could probably help me but they would get mad, right? So that your parents would get mad Yeah, or like just like kind of be They give me like a reaction that I wouldn't be happy with okay, and what kind of reaction would they give you? Like oh you need to get your shit together you need to do this you need to do that blah blah blah But like I don't know that they she with like how they seem to react is it's not like it's always negative It doesn't really doesn't feel constructive. It's like it's just telling me stuff that I already know Very good, Julius Now you're you're starting to become unencumbered So this is this is how we got to slow rolling deprived So I want all of you guys to understand that like when you carry this emotional weight You kind of carry it but like it actually feels like You carry it but like it actually doesn't help you do anything Right like knowing your conflict avoidant having conversations with people When you carry that weight, it actually like weighs you down and like paralyzes you further. Does that make sense? So we're gonna talk and try to understand that a little bit. Okay, so When your parents when you have a conversation with your parents, they say stuff like oh you need to get your shit together, right? How does it make you feel? Just bad. It doesn't make me it doesn't motivate me to do anything. It just makes me feel bad Why do you think that is? Because I know it's true and because like it doesn't really it doesn't feel helpful. Yeah, what does it feel like? Just like I'm being insulted in a way, yeah and how I Don't know how to say this what would you like them to say let's start there My mom wasn't too bad about it yesterday, but my stepdad was worse and she was just kind of more understanding and what did she say? Well, I kept saying I was sorry and she told me to stop saying I was sorry and like I Don't remember exactly what she said, but she wasn't really as like mean about it and what about your stepdad? He was pretty much just like just get like get your shit together and like saying he's like angry with me and stuff He said he was angry with you or he sounded angry with you Lee sounded he said he was like Frustrated or something. I don't remember the exact words. Okay, and Did he say what was frustrating for him? No, I don't think so. How did you feel about yourself? Like ashamed and unhappy what about frustrated Yeah, yeah, I'd say I was pretty frustrated with myself as well what's frustrating about your life right now Like I feel like I have no control and I'm generally pretty unhappy and it's hard to like Be able to do a lot of things. Yeah I can imagine that maybe you're frustrated with yourself because You're not helping yourself out and you don't know how to help yourself out of it Yeah, right. That's the part of it Right. That's what's really hard is like you kind of know what you should do and it doesn't really help To hear what you already know what you need to hear from them is what you don't know You don't need them to tell you that you're not you know It's it's kind of like unfortunate that you're not able to pay rent like, you know that you know You need to get a job. You just don't know how to do it so it's kind of like imagine if I went to the hospital and I said I've been throwing up for five days and then the doctor said well you're throwing up for five days And then I'm like, yeah, I know that already they're like well you got to stop throwing up You're like well, I can't that's why I'm here because I can't stop throwing up. They're like well You got to stop Like other people aren't throwing up Why are why are you throwing up? Like you look around like the people like like, you know, so and so's kid he's not throwing up You're like, yeah, I know that They're like, I don't understand why you don't stop throwing up like that's not that's fucking not productive So, I think it's very important to understand first of all bully is that so you think conflict avoidance is a bad thing Or like you think avoidance is a bad thing, right Generally I'd say yeah, I mean sometimes it probably has like it's merits but what are its merits I Mean like if some dudes like at a bar and he's trying to like get in a fight with you and probably gonna like Trans shank you or something. It's really good to get out of there. Absolutely So what is your avoidance do for you? Who's the guy? Who's the guy with the shank? What a beautiful analogy bullies Who's shaking you right now? Me I guess no, I don't think so I What does it feel like when you talk to your stepdad? Not good, yeah, it feels like you're getting fucking shanked right, I mean Isn't that what it feels like? I think that's actually a great you're getting back stabbed With a guy who's using a dagger in Dark Souls like it's like it's got good backstab damage and you shank in you and And this is the thing like you don't want to get shanked like it fucking sucks So I think this is really important to understand like you say you're avoiding and you make that sound like it's a problem Right, like do you think being avoidant is a problem? Not always but I think for me yeah, yeah, why is it a problem for you? Because it causes me to avoid things that I probably shouldn't be avoiding Okay So that makes sense. But what does avoidance do for you? So if there's something that you should do I want everybody to understand this that the reason that our mind does things is not because it's shitty for us Like that's not why that's not how our mind works. Our mind does stupid things because it actually helps us So like having this conversation with your stepdad, how does that help you? Absolutely So that's important to understand right like we have this we don't actually stop and think about what we're avoiding and why we're avoiding it Like you were you you kind of you're avoidant. You need to have a conversation with your parents and I guess presumably like the main reason is because you need to come up with money for rent Yeah, and but at the end of the day like the reason that you're avoidant is because when you're avoiding it The reason that you're avoidant is because when you have conversations, they actually don't really help you they like they're painful so it's like, you know if i'm if i'm cooking And I put like my hand On my cast iron skillet and I get burned And then I don't do that again. Like we don't call that avoidant. We just call that smart Right, and so when you're like avoiding a conversation with your stepdad because he fucking shanks you when you talk to him Like sure that's avoided but it's also protective So this is this is the other word that I want us to start thinking a little bit about is That avoidance is is being protective like there's a part of you that's actually trying to protect yourself from like getting shanked So then the question becomes like bullies. How do we like If we want to stop being avoidant What that means is that I I just run with me Okay, this is going to be kind of weird because i'm going to like do a hop skip and a jump What that means is that I want to stop being protective Okay, okay, does that make sense you with me so far so How do you think it is and this is super abstract and weird? How do you think it is that you stop being protective? You make yourself more vulnerable, yeah, well Okay, so i'm going to use another analogy. Okay, so When you're in dark souls When do you have your shield up? When um, I mean I usually don't use the shield but okay, so you're you're When somebody's shooting an arrow at you then yeah, right? So like when you're in a dangerous place So like the key to becoming like to letting letting your protections down is like actually not being in danger Like you don't need to be protective if there's no danger Right and so then the question becomes like why do you like where does the danger come from because if we can understand why you feel the danger And we can help you feel safe Then you don't need to be protective anymore Right, it's kind of like, you know like like when you're out in the world and you're like armed and stuff But like when you enter town like you put your sword away and you put your shield away And you're like talking to people and buying and selling stuff and it's like it's not a dangerous place Right. There's like town and there's the real world And so if we can understand what it is that makes you feel unsafe And we can actually quiet that part of you if we can quiet You're avoiding the experience of some kind of negative emotion, right? But if we can address that negative emotion Then you no longer need to be avoided So I don't think that the solution to avoidance and this is what a lot of people think is like you just try to willpower your way through it You're like, oh fuck like I have to have this conversation Why don't why don't I just fucking have this conversation? That's what happens Sometime why don't I just do it now it doesn't work. It doesn't work. Absolutely Right But like there are some things we have to we have to take away the thing which makes you be avoidant And then you won't be avoided Overcoming avoidance is a completely different thing which we can talk about Like in terms of brute force different part of your brain What i'm talking about is sort of like emotionally processing the reason that you're being avoided in the first place So why are you being avoided in the first place? Like of my parents? Yeah, because I feel like they're They can be pretty negative in like ways or like hurt me through like words or just make me feel like garbage. Yeah And why do you feel like garbage? Like because of the things they say to me, yeah, and what do they say? Yeah, and what do they say Like they usually just criticize me a lot, okay, I don't know like specific examples, okay Can you help me understand what kind of criticisms Like that I need to like grow up or I guess that's one or that Start to think of like what exactly they say. I think I tried not to take like mental note of it Yeah, you know, you try to block it out Right. So you're holding your shield up and then you can't see It's protective it's like you're going into like turtle mode And Why do you think what they say is so hurtful? Why do you think what they say is so hurtful like what hurts about what they say? Like because they're like my family, okay and like I care about what they think Because i'm assuming like there's some truth to it I think do you think there's truth to it Somewhat. I mean, i'm i'm not really sure but I think Possibly what do you think is that I don't go ahead. Sorry Like I don't think i'm super happy with like myself and like I don't think i'm perfect all the time So I think there's like yeah some truth to it. Yeah Do you think that um What do you think hurts more the stuff that they're they're right about or the stuff that they're wrong about? I'd say for me probably the stuff that they're wrong about so I feel like they don't understand me What don't they understand about you Like I feel like their perception of me is that I just don't care about like all my issues or anything And i'm not trying to do anything to make it any better. But like I am like every day So it just it bothers me that they like think I just I just don't care when I when I do a lot Sounds like you're you're actually working really hard to change your situation And that they're not able to I don't know if I really am like I don't know if I can give myself enough credit to say that I am but I I try to What do you think you deserve credit for At least trying Are you trying I'd say so. I mean, I don't want to feel like crap every day. Yeah, so what are you doing? What does trying look like? Like going to therapy and Like I got a job the other day and stuff So I guess that's like some progress Yeah I've been getting a job to me sounds like a lot of progress Yeah, how do you feel about the job? Well, I felt pretty good. I was pretty happy about it when I got it. So how do you feel now? Um I feel okay. I mean I'm kind of anxious about the job because I haven't started yet So i'm like, I don't know how it's gonna go. But yeah, it'll be it'll be good. So i'll try it out So Abulius I think it can be really hard when you turn to someone for help and They don't how can I say this They kind of just address you like a symptom, right? So they kind of look at you and they say like oh you got to grow up because you don't you're not doing x Y and z and they don't really understand like the root of it Yeah, you know, um, does that make sense to you? Yeah What did you understand from what I said? Like there's more to like they they see just the problem they don't see like the cause of the problem Yeah and then when they start talking so I think the challenge here is that like when someone just sees The problem and not the cause of the problem the way in which they talk to you doesn't connect Right because they're just talking they're not really like talking about like what your experience is Like they're not talking about the whole picture. They're just talking about one piece right and and so they're they're sort of like turning you into just like One version like they're they're turning you into a caricature of who you are Right. Yeah. So what do you think you're what do you think it is that they're not seeing? Like that that I that i'm trying or that like it's it's really hard for me Like I feel like they're their mentality towards it is like so just wholly different from mine And what are they missing? Like you can't it's it's it's it's like a lot more complicated than like just grow up forehead like all that It's it's more complicated than they make it seem yeah, so what are the complications that they're missing? like It's hard for me to do like the things that I need to do regardless of like All that yeah, what makes it hard to do the things that you need to do Like how I feel about myself or like my um Like just there's a lot I mean Yeah, it feels like a lot so ah very important hold on a second So so I asked you what makes it hard and what did you say? So so I asked you what makes it hard and what did you say It feels like a lot like it's overwhelming. Yeah, so you said first how you feel about yourself Right, that's the first thing you said and then you were like trying to come up with other things And then you said it feels like a lot So I I think we have to be very clear to understand that There's a difference between a lot of things getting in the way And one really big thing getting in the way Because I think that gives us a way forward So sometimes bullies despite your best efforts your mind actually tells you what's going on And what it's telling me is that the the root of this is is the way that you feel about yourself And that like when it's conversations that there there are things that you fear About who you are And when you go to your landlord and you say I don't have rent for the month The things that you fear about yourself become true When you talk to your mom And you keep apologizing you're apologizing because there's a part of you that is becoming true the part of you that you're terrified of And the reason you hate talking to your stepdad is because he takes that part of you that you're that you don't like about yourself And he sticks your nose in it And that feels like a shank And as long as that thing is there you're going to need your shield up You're going to need to be avoided Because that shit hurts So tell me what's that part of yourself what is that you're who is it that you don't want to be Like Like I want to be able to be true to my word and like be responsible Okay You want to be true to your word and you want to be responsible? Yeah Okay What does being responsible mean Um Like doing the right thing despite it being hard Okay I know kind of hard to describe I guess that that's a that's a way better answer than I could I could didn't understand What the fuck that meant I I couldn't define it, but I think that's a brilliant answer Doing the right thing when it's hard that's From the mouth of a slow rolling deprived, you know, I always assumed that deprives couldn't speak For some reason like in my mind like they don't they're not capable of speech. But anyway, so I think truth we can get behind so I I think that um You know bullies we have a lot of ideas around like psychology and we kind of have this idea that if you're avoidant You have some kind of emotion like by ideas I mean I promote this kind of stuff that like you know if you solve that emotion or you process that emotion like life Is going to be easier for you, but I want to talk about a different vein right now I want to talk about truth So in ancient india The path to enlightenment began with two two steps. The first was personal observances and the second was societal observances So societal observances are things like cleanliness And personal observances were things like satya or truth And I think that there is they believed that there is power in truth And that's not something that I like really understood Like I don't know even know what that means kind of like do you know what that means like do you think there's power in truth? I think so. What is that even since you're good with words? What is what the fuck does that even mean? I think there's like power in being genuine and like being yourself and it makes you feel a lot better and like also it kind of Validates you in a way Validates you in a way, okay, and I feel like if you're a lot more honest about things and people can't really Like I don't think there's anybody in the world that has like really terrible intentions really and if you're honest about things in it Kind of validates you in a way Okay, it's a weird perspective to have. I don't know it is so then help me understand if that's true Why is it hard to have a conversation with your landlord? Because it makes me admit things that I don't like or that I'm embarrassed about Okay, so but how does that weigh against this power of truth that you're talking about? I guess I don't want to experience like negative emotion But what does truth have to do with that? But what does truth have to do with that Uh Not sure Fantastic, nor should you be right because I think this is a concept that's become lost So we have this instinctive idea and I think you're right that truth truthfulness has power The problem is that like we don't understand how to fit this idea of the the power of truthfulness in with our daily lives like we don't know like what that really means like everyone sort of instinctively is like yeah, that sounds like a fucking you know, it sounds like if you're a paladin like you can do some cool shit and that depends on truth, so like Yeah, there's something there, but we don't really know like we don't know right because we don't talk about this stuff anymore We teach mathematics. We teach economics We don't teach about truth and lying and what those do to us like we we just talk about psychology and emotions So I I want you to think about something buleus What do you think would happen like so let's say that like I cursed you and you were unable to lie Do you think what do you think would happen to your life Probably improve why Because I I I lied a lot growing up in it kind of just It made things worse a lot of the time. Why making them better Because like you kind of lose your sense of self and you're like Lies become truth in a weird way and also like um It just it feels a lot better to tell the truth, okay Now i'm a little bit confused because earlier you were saying that like it hurts to tell people the truth you're avoiding it And you were also saying that when you lie You become you said something about like that's like you become like the lie becomes the truth Yeah, like it it's hard to explain you're doing a good job, but I agree So i'm going to toss something out there I think the part of yourself that you're afraid of Grows every time you lie and it becomes more and more true every time you give in to that avoidance Right that there's a part of yourself that you think is shitty you're afraid That you're shitty But that every time you lie and every time you avoid it you make that more true What do you think about that so that's accurate I'd say that's accurate yeah So what do we do bullies I don't know Okay, we'll see if twitch chat has any ideas But I I think it starts with truthfulness So I think you can get an immense amount of power over satya And so I have an exercise for you bullies and everyone at home I want you to see how long you can go without telling a lie Okay, how long do you think you can go At least a day Okay, I don't know because there's like subtle subtle lies Like half truths, I don't know it can be very complicated. Absolutely good Good So this exercise is going to be very important for you bullies Because what you're already recognizing is that there there's a certain machinery to your actions and words That I don't think you're aware of But if you start looking at the lens of lying and truth You'll begin to see these little things They're like little beetles like crawling around and shaping what you say and what you do and you're not even aware of what they're doing They're they're subtle lies. They're half truths there's like not just lying to your landlord, but like Leaving the house when you're not going to see them There's pretending to not be at home and all these other like little things Now pretend that all of that was off the table. What would happen in your life? I think i'd probably be less stressed about like like worried about stuff like that. How the fuck does that work? Like I thought the whole point of lying is to protect you, right? Yeah, so this is the other important thing to understand lying is about control Why do you lie like what do you control? Like the other person's perception absolutely This needs to be understood very very deeply when you lie it is to control another human being Right, yeah, how does that work? I mean, how well does that work? Let me put it that way Depends good answer How's it worked out for you so far Not well Absolutely, right? So we think and in some cases Lying does work really well But for the most part it fucks us Like you have to understand that like lying is your attempt to control another human being that's exactly what it is nothing more nothing less And so your problem bullies is that you are living Trying to control your environment. You're like trying to control when the sun rises and when the moon rises Instead of controlling like what you do Your life is based on what is avoidance avoidance is all about the other person It's all about preventing someone from like saying or doing something to you The reason you're stuck is because Your locus of control like what you're trying to do is like you're you're hitting like the Wazd on your keyboard and you're trying to control an npc You're like when I hit space bar, why doesn't the fire keeper roll? Like this is something that really needs to be understood So much of your effort is spent on controlling an external human being And it's fucking inefficient It's just inefficient It feels good. Sure. There are emotions, but you just got to understand you're expending so much effort The reason you're stuck is because your brain you're a smart guy. I can tell you're a smart guy I think like sometimes when the stars align You can do amazing things. I already know that And the difference is what the when the stars align you stop focusing on others and you start focusing on yourself Like cleaning your room is not about other people who's it about Absolutely And when you start doing things for yourself If you're not doing things for yourself Then like your life is going to start changing And satya is about this satya is about the real power of satya comes when I stop lying I stop trying to control other people's actions So when I stop trying to control other people's actions actions Do I surrender or do I gain freedom lulius? What do you think? Freedom How do I not surrender? I mean you surrender like your control I guess in a way. Yes And that gives you freedom We think about freedom and surrender as opposite ends of the spectrum. They're actually the same thing that when you surrender Your ability to control another human being You gain freedom Give you guys a classic example. I like a girl I want to ask girl out I'm afraid girl doesn't like me. Let me do things to control the way that she thinks about me Let me lie about my income Let me lie about my past and let me lie about my job And if I do these things Girl will say yes when I ask her out And every time you say one of those lies like do you think that person how do you think that person feels? When they construct this story to impress said girl Like shitty yeah They feel trapped That's what lies do to you they trap you Like when you're avoiding your your parents and you're avoiding your landlord, you're fucking trapped You feel powerless And that's a prison that you make yourself with your words So it starts there's an immense amount of power if you want to transform your life speak truthfulness Because the funny thing happens if you commit to being true Your actions must change Right, so if you take lying off the table like what happens to your actions? Become like in the open. Yeah, and like how do you think they change? Like you probably care more or like you probably if you're honest about it then it probably is like more like Prevalent and you're like, okay, this should probably change because I can't lie about it anymore. Absolutely, right? So what's an example of that? This needs to change because I can't lie about it anymore Like what's an example of that? Like what did you have for lunch a salad or a hamburger it's that simple If I can't lie if I commit to not lying about what I had for lunch i'm going to start eating healthy There's all those times that you're embarrassed about what you ate and you fucking lie about it Like why do you lie about it? Because you don't want other people to think that you're a fucking fatty Right And if you stop lying about it that you just start eating healthy, I know it sounds absolutely insane It sounds absolutely insane Is is fixing your diet as simple as not lying and so I challenge you to try it see how long you can go Okay, see how long you can go and then what happens bullies is when you see how long you can go you see how your life changes You see like so like you want to go a day without lying, okay fine, let's see it Can you go two days like why can't you go two days? I'm just i'm not sure how long it can go. I know you're not sure but what's why do why are you gonna lie? What do you need to lie about? Well, I don't know what I need to lie about Good, right? So when you say you need to lie, what do you what is it? What are the kinds of things that you're going to need to lie about? Why would you lie? Well, I don't know. I don't know. I don't think I would lie, but it's just yeah, you're gonna lie And you're gonna lie when you need someone to think something about you Right, right. That's when you're gonna lie And when you need someone to think something about you, that's when you that's when the fuckery starts That's when you're screwed Because then you are letting that person's perceptions of you Control the person's perceptions of you Control the person that you are in the way that you feel about yourself So satya is where it begins truthfulness When you talk about psychology continue seeing your therapist fantastic go get some real mental health treatment And in the meantime, like try truthfulness Okay questions thoughts Oh me yeah, uh Oh me yeah, uh, not really I don't have any urgent things. Okay. What do you think about what we're talking about? How do you feel about it? I'm pretty good about it. It's always been trying to be more genuine. So it's like Makes sense There's like actually a reason to I guess a reason to be genuine. Yeah so this is like this is the hard thing bullies to be honest like this is tricky because You know, we have all these platitudes of like yeah, you should be truthful, but no like you should understand Understand the benefits of truthfulness and understand the benefits of lying And then you pick you try them both out in your life Like you take a you take a bite of vanilla and you take a bite of chocolate Like when you're trying out your ice cream like you taste both and then you decide for yourself which one you want I think right now the biggest problem is that you're operating on reflex and I think you've you've said a lot of really important and profound things today I think you've you've said that you know, one of the best things that I like about what you said Which i'm gonna you know steal and use on stream Is going to be this whole thing about when you lie to other people if there's like a part of that lie that becomes the truth That I think is really powerful and every time you lie you like propagate this idea of like who you are And and I think this avoidance and stuff just start telling the truth and then If you really commit to that and you see how long you can go and i'm not saying you can't ever lie again Like a commitment really doesn't work, but you just see how long you can go And then for for the if you can lie if you can stop lying for one day That's going to be a good day Questions yeah thoughts feelings Yes I'm like i'm like thinking a weird like is joking like lying in a way good. What do you think? Kind of yes and no It's I don't know it's a weird half-fake thought no, it's not a half-fake thought I think what you're trying to do is figure out what kind of lies you're allowed to tell Because I think you're a very good liar Unfortunately, yeah Right. So so even now you see what's happening in your mind Is you're trying to figure out how you can protect yourself and still fulfill the criteria of the thing That's what's happening. Well, it's more like I don't I don't want to mess it up So I don't want to like do the wrong thing. Yeah, so the wrong thing is to lie right So I don't want to lie yeah, yeah, and so, you know what that is it's not that complicated you know what I mean And you're looking for a workaround Because that's how addicted you are to like lying and hiding and being avoided Like what i'm doing is i'm i'm taking your i'm deequipping your armor and your shield And then you're like well Can I wear a loincloth like can I at least get a little bit of armor? I'm like, nope No, alone cloth Not allowed to wear anything That's what you're doing like oh, what about a joke? What about like an emotion? What about a half truth? I Mean sure you can you call it whatever we want you want to but If you find a good way a clever way to lie without lying and I think we can talk about that one day Because I think that actually has its its purpose You guys want to do story time. I'll tell you guys a story about that um, but I I think I mean, I I think you know Right and like you know, I want to hear the story, huh? I want to hear the story though. Okay So my mom once told me something very profound which is um, so there are two Incarnations of this guy named vishnu. So vishnu is one of the hindu gods And vishnu is sort of like the god that helps out humanity And so when evil is like very powerful in the world he incarnates And then tries to deal with the evil um And so in one of his own incarnations is this guy named krishna and krishna is kind of a shady fucker So i'll give you guys just an example of a story that that krishna did um, so There's a civil war going on in india between two sets of cousins And the story of the civil war is something called the mahabharata, but one set of cousins is called the bandavas. They're the good guys Another set of cousins is called the gauravas and they're the bad guys so Krishna One day they're they're let me just think about which story to tell you So one day they're krishna knows that there's going to be an eclipse And there's a code of war that people follow so they fight from dawn till dusk And like between dusk and dawn they're not allowed to fight So what krishna does is he goes to his the bandavas which are supposedly the good guys of the story and he says that Okay, like around three or four pm like you guys aren't gonna they didn't have watches and stuff back then but It's gonna look like the sun is going down and dusk is gonna happen sooner than you think it is so what I want you guys to do is Stop fighting for like five or ten minutes And then like the gauravas your enemies will stop fighting too because everyone is going to think it's dusk And then once they put their weapons away and once they're retreating off the field of battle I want you guys to pull out your weapons and attack And So the the bandavas are like but isn't i'm confused like aren't we supposed to like stop attacking after dusk And then krishna's like no no, man. They're like, it's okay. Trust me like you're not going to be breaking any rules It's going to seem like you're breaking rules, but you're not going to break any rules So the bottom the bandavas say okay, so they go on to the field of battle and sure enough the eclipse happens and um So like everyone thinks it's getting dark and so people put their weapons away and they stop fighting and then the gauravas Kind of turn around and they start to leave the field of battle. And and what do you think the bandavas do? They do the same thing leave the field of battle I hope so Yeah, they do the opposite. They listen to krishna. They pull out their weapons and they massacre People who are leaving the field of battle and are not Sounds immoral, right? Like is that a lie? Is that truth? What do you think? It's not it's not really a lie, but it feels like one yeah, right feels immoral So i'm going to tell you another story So a couple thousand years or maybe a thousand years before krishna vishnu decided to incarnate it like before that And he came down as a guy named ram And ram is sort of like this kind of like ideal human And so ram's story is kind of interesting. So he gets married to this this princess named sita And there's an evil king who is like lustful towards sita and he like really wants her And um is disappointed that she chooses to marry ram And so what what this evil king his name is raavan you've followed me so far Yeah, okay. So what raavan does is he abducts her he kidnaps her and he takes her to his his palace Which is on an island called lanka if you guys know where sri lanka is. It's like a little island south of india So he abducts sita and he takes her down there And then ram says okay, i'm gonna you know, i'm gonna have to get her back So he raises an army and over the course of a year or two He fights against raavan kills raavan rescue sita brings her back to his his brings her back to his court And is kind of frustrated because like his court sort of doesn't accept her anymore They're like, eh Like yeah, I know she was kidnapped but she was like in his house for like over a year and like how do you know? She was faithful and like We don't she's kind of tainted they're sort of very puritanical back then and so what do you think ram does? Um I don't know Okay, let's see if it's twitch chat thinks what do you guys think he does Okay, so Ram Kills the court perhaps, okay So ram actually decides to divorce her and he says that my first duty is to the kingdom And um if the court won't accept her as like a queen and and like they think that she's tainted then My first duty is not to my own happiness but is to the kingdom and um And so he divorces her and he's upset and and you know people sort of say that that's like kind of the ideal wonderful thing To do but my mom once told me something very very wise and she said that if you want to live like what do you think? about that Julius let's start there I mean, it's kind of stupid. Yeah So my mom once told me something very profound which she doesn't remember to this day, which is that if you want to live a good life live like ram If you want to live a happy life live like krishna I don't know if I agree with that. Okay, say something tell me what don't you agree with Well, wouldn't like the guilt weigh you down if you lived like krishna I don't know man. How are you gonna find out? I mean, I kind of have already so i'm like, I don't know if that's a good idea Yeah, so what are you saying about your life bullies? What is it so earlier you asked me you said yeah, it feels like a lot it feels heavy it's overwhelming What's overwhelming? What's heavy? Like my feelings towards myself, yeah, and what are some of those feelings? Um, wouldn't the guilt weigh you down? right Guilt then yeah, is that how you feel? Yeah, I think I can be I can be guilty over things i've done yeah Right guilt for not doing more guilt for becoming the person that you are guilt for creating the life that you've created So i'll accept it So i'll accept it you don't think that so so people say my mom says that you should be cunning and cold And that the ends justifies the mean and that's that's krishna's path and if you don't agree with that, that's fine So live the other way and then get back to me Okay, right, but that means stopping to live the way that you are and what does that start with booyas Not lying. Yes truthfulness satya So you're gonna go a day At least a day at least a day Pay attention Okay, so Um, we're gonna see I guess let me just see if people do other people have questions I think our featured chat thing is not working. It looks like right Let me just see real quick for a second So i want to know like yeah, so so oh it is working so why don't I see anything in it Could I explain Krishna wait, how do I Oh, here we go, okay Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay question um Okay Okay, a lot of people are asking technical questions about lying so first thing that I want to know is twitch chat How long are you guys gonna not lie for? Like what do you guys want to do? What do you think Okay So i'm seeing everything from like a few minutes to like never again So I I really want you guys to try this at home and I want y'all to do exactly what booyas is doing I want you to see when you start when you stop lying What happens to your life? Like does it get harder? Does it get easier? Does it get harder for a time and then easier? One week, okay Okay I think that's a great idea. So let's just start again. It's being unrealist 18 hours. Yeah, so so I mean so this is the thing like I don't care about hypotheticals Right. We can talk about hypotheticals, but ultimately Change happens through experience when you actually start doing things differently like that's when you're going to learn So booyas has been living a life like krishna. He's been living a life of like sneakiness and subterfuge And you don't like the way it makes you feel fine. So start living a different way So i'm going to start answering questions But i'm going to encourage booyas to start cleaning or actually hold on Do we want to clean as like a meditation together and check in about how people feel? Or do we want to? Let's do q a and then we'll do cleaning stream. How does that sound? Sure, okay Let's do questions. Okay So one question is how do you avoid being emotionally burned out from your interactions with your clients? Uh because So this is what I want you guys to understand like why do you guys think booyas is life booyas? Why do you think living your life is so fucking exhausting? Like why aren't you like do you feel burned out? emotionally Yeah, yeah, right so why Why Do I feel like i'm doing it wrong, okay, and you know why you're doing it wrong Because you're being inauthentic Right so burnout comes from like living a life that's fake Like living a life of lies is mentally and emotionally exhausting. I don't get burned out from my clients because i'm i'm like this I'm like this So like I I want to be me like i'm a bad therapist for some people because I like to talk And I ask people like difficult questions and in a sense, I don't spare their feelings like if I have to sit back and restrain myself If I don't get to tell random ass stories Then I get bored and it's hard for me But I I find clients or I think the people that i'm able to help are the ones that are like open Is like pissing around and like not answering questions and stuff that I find tiring But generally speaking, I don't get tired as long as i'm being authentic and I think like one of the most exhausting. It's just so hard I mean like I don't know how else to put this but You know when you're living an inauthentic life, it's like you're You're like a mage who's like running around with a two-hander Like it's just going to be shitty It's just it's just you're gonna suck at it and it doesn't it's just exhausting Whereas if you live a life that is kind of like honest and authentic then it's actually you get a lot of energy and you just do better So it's not that exhausting Okay, so next question is Bullies about chores like cleaning etc. I think once you start doing them more often You'll get into the habit of doing it automatically when there's less chores left. It'll feel less overwhelming. What do you think about that? I mean the hardest part is starting And also, I don't know part part of it for me is it's like it feels like it's never ending because there's always gonna be more to do so I think those are really important points, right? So hard. I agree that starting is the hardest And what's wrong with it being never ending? I Mean it just it's it feels taxing I guess because you're like, I don't want to have to do this But I have to keep having to do it Yeah, so I I think I think this is uh, This is going to be important booyah. So one day we're going to have a conversation About how completion is not the goal Right, right so your focus is on getting things completed You want to just get that rent paid and you want to have that conversation be over And as long as you want that conversation with your stepdad to be over It's going to be really hard to do but oddly enough If you can free yourself from wanting to be done The doing becomes really easy That's hard though, does that make sense? Yeah, okay next question what about Lies that you yourself believe what are the effects of them? So that's an interesting question I don't know How do you know what you believe is how can you tell the difference between what you believe being true or a lie? Look, I'm kind of curious about that Probably feeling like I'm not sure Probably feeling what do you mean like you can kind of sense it I think if it's a lie How can you sense it Like when you say something that's a lie you can kind of feel that it's like incorrect And what do you in a way, what do you think the effects are of the lies that you tell yourself? I think they're more more negative than anything generally I mean, so I I think that the main thing to understand once again is that lying is about control Right. So if you're lying about yourself Like if you let yourself believe a lie, like you have to understand that that lie is serving a purpose for you And you have to understand like what is the purpose of lying to yourself? What is it about myself that I'm unwilling to face or accept? about who I am or what I've done And ultimately I think if you want to move forward you have to accept who you are case in point And we just talked about you know being a mage and wielding a two-hander and sure you can you can be gandalf But gandalf is the exception not the rule right like most of us are not running around as gandalf And also gandalf really didn't use magic. So he's basically a fighter. Let's remember that But you know, I think when it comes to lying to yourself You know, I think when it comes to lying to yourself Just understand that like lying to yourself is is going to be hard because you're You're making yourself become something that you're not and when you start playing a character that you actually aren't like when you start, you know, like Not being yourself life is just going to get way harder So I think it can be hard because a lot of times we do lie to ourselves and that lying to ourselves is a protective mechanism and what we're trying to control is like we're trying to control ourselves, right we're trying to We're trying to control like sort of the way that we view ourselves and I generally think that that isn't happy that isn't healthy But it can be hard to overcome Okay Next question is let's talk about being too honest. I don't see what question that is. Okay, so Let's talk about being too honest fine So I don't want you guys to take so this happens sometimes where someone is like I am like a fan of radical honesty And they say that like i'm committed to truth and i'm going to speak the truth wherever I go so I don't think that that's a good idea. Like so I I think sometimes people confuse satya with a license to be an asshole That's not what satya is satya doesn't mean like you you go to lunch with your friends and you Call like your buddy's girlfriend out for like gaining 15 pounds because that's your truth You're going to speak your truth Don't let satya become an asshole like so Being honest. So this is the other thing like being honest is not really about This is going to sound weird is not about like what you portray to other people right ultimately honesty is about like you being honest with yourself and You know, you should be honest with others when it's relevant, but it's not like uh, You're going to be like radical honesty and like i'm going to say tell everything Like i'm going to tell people what I think about them I'm going to tell them that I think they're an asshole and like I think there's value to honesty, but Don't confuse being honest and satya with being an asshole, which sometimes people do and it's a really easy mistake to make And and so you should be honest, but you know, don't be too like don't Let me put it this way. Just because you're honest doesn't mean you have to open your fucking mouth So when it's important and when it's relevant to the conversation you open your mouth and you don't lie But it doesn't give you a license to just share your your stupid opinion with everyone about everything that you think that's not what honesty is about Um, what about lying to save others from harm? What do you think? What do you guys think is it okay to lie to save others from harm? So everyone's saying it depends on the harm. What do you think lulius you're on the hot seat? Is it okay to lie to protect others from harm? I mean I think the safe answer is it depends but I think the Genuine answer is not really the safe answer I think the safe answer is it depends on the person you're talking to I think the safe answer is it depends but I think the Genuine answer is not really okay. So i'd start by by not accepting the premise of the question Which is that I don't know that lying necessarily protects people from harm. I don't I don't start with that premise So I have been shocked By how much I think about lying protecting people from harm and i'll give you guys just an example So I was working with someone I was working for a while on the cancer psychiatry like consultation service So for like a month or two months or something like that I was basically a psychiatrist that worked with people with cancer And one of the simplest things that people do is they lie to their kids, especially if they're young kids about people having cancer And that's a very That's kind of like a safe bet like you think like if you're lying to someone Like let me lie to my nine-year-old about like me having cancer So the parents will get together and they'll lie to their nine-year-old and they'll say like oh, yeah Like dad is gonna be fine He's sick and he's in the hospital now Right like that's a pretty safe lie like you're trying to protect your kid What do you think? How do you think about what do you think about that? Luis I don't think it's a safe lie because it's gonna blow up in your face regardless Because then they're they feel like they were lied to so that's I think an example of one of the most compassionate lies Irrespective of whether it's right or wrong or stupid. I think that is the most that is the case that I can think of that is the most Compassionate and well-intentioned lie i've ever encountered Which is that I don't want my child to realize that like they're gonna lose their parent and I want to protect them from that I don't know protect them from that But you you can't Right. So I don't know that lying really saves other people from harm. Like I just don't accept that premise I mean, i'm not saying it isn't theoretically possible, but in my experience many of the cases that People think that lying is going to protect someone from harm and boy the kind of shit that people keep come up with Yeah, you know like I'm not gonna let my spouse and my wife get hurt Yeah, you know like I'm not gonna let my spouse know that I had an affair because it's over now and the only thing it would do would hurt her feelings Right true on some level maybe I don't know but Anyway, I think the thing about like that specific lie is that like what if the parent's not fine then what happens Which which parent? Like let's say like that. Oh, I don't have I'm just gonna be in the hospital be fine and then they like they pass away or something then like what's the kid supposed to think? Yeah, I I completely agree. So someone is someone in chat is asking. I'm just gonna ask a follow-up question Let's say you saw someone in danger. The only way to save to save him is lying. Would you not lie? So my question is what is a scenario in which the only way to save that person is lying? right, so like what i'm saying is that generally speaking like in my experience People come up with these hypothetical scenarios, but we're not talking about hypothetical scenario. We're talking about Oh, yeah jews in the attic. I think you should absolutely lie about jews in the attic. Absolutely. Oh, I mean, that's a good one. That's different Yeah No, I mean, I i'm like I said, i'm not saying it's 100 true. I think you should lie about jews in the attic. Sure That's a good one Right, yeah So i'm glad for someone Mentioning that because I think that's I hadn't really thought about that. I've never been faced in a situation where i've jews in the attic so Yeah, but that's why I love chat I mean like let me be the first to say that you know, I don't have all the answers and if you guys come up With good examples, that's good in my life and clinical experience The number of times where lying actually protects people from harm is is I haven't encountered that really And the number of times that I've told people to be truthful and counseled them to be truthful has been like really really important Like it's been all overwhelmingly positive Okay Does not giving an answer to something constitute a lie if you know the an answer but choose not to provide one Is that a lie? What do you think? So you cut out a second so someone's asking if you if you don't if you don't Provide an answer is that the same as lying? No No, not really because it's like you can choose not to answer something it's not I mean it can kind of depend but Like if you said I don't know to something you can kind of consider that as like a lie Like if you knew it knew what happened, but it's like Yeah, so I mean I think this is exactly why we do this exercise right because I think we can talk about Hypotheticals as much as we want to but I've known very few people I'm tempted to say none, but I mean it's got to have happened whose life has been changed by a hypothetical So like these questions quickly become philosophical They quickly become hypothetical and they quickly become academic you guys see what's happening like people are asking But like what about this like what about the oj simpson? What about being a defense attorney like we're not fucking talking about that Like sure Like someone said like jews in the attic. I will concede That when it comes to satya, I think the right thing to do is to lie about jews in the attic so that they don't get like killed I agree, right? You know, I'll be the first to say that I'll be the first to say that I don't think that that's a relevant example for your life And if it is, please do the right thing But at the end of the day like you guys have to be careful because watch what's happening As you come up with a hypothetical question And you answer it in a hypothetical way you feel like you learned something This is really important to understand you guys feel like you figure it out And the more you feel like you figure it out the less likely you are to do the exercise And this is why people fucking stay stuck is because they live a life of like a philosopher where they just think about things and then think About hypotheticals and they wake up the next day and like all of the energy of satya is gone because you sorted it out Like just see how addictive This philosophical thinking is because now it's like oh like we like came up with something. What about this? Dr K. What about this and yeah, okay fine You guys figured out you guys figured out like where satya falls apart fantastic. Good job Now what are you gonna wake up the next day and and try to not tell the truth? Like this is this is so dangerous because gamers especially are like they get so Ensconced in like analytical reasoning and hypotheticals and philosophy like you guys are all brilliant fucking philosophers The challenge is that being a philosopher is not going to change your life In theory we think about philosophers as people who have transformed lives and I do think that You know like marcus aurelius and stoicism. I think are like brilliant philosophies and if you implement it That's one thing but philosophically talking about marcus aurelius is not going to do shit You actually have to go out and answer this question for yourself Does not giving an answer constitute a lie? We can say whatever we want to and you can be logically right or logically incorrect My question to you is when you wake up the next morning and someone asks you Did you take out the trash? Like what are you gonna say? Are you gonna say? Would you like some orange juice this morning? Like are you gonna do that and how do you feel? Like what is that like that's the question Right, like you got to start living it and then you come up with the answer This is the other thing is somewhere along the way you guys got the impression that I have answers Somewhere along the way you guys got the impression that I know what i'm talking about I want everyone to understand this very clearly. I don't have a fucking clue. I know about my life, but I don't know shit about yours Everything that I say should be put through the crucible of your own experience I'm not giving you guys a road map. I'm giving you guys like A protocol to run an experiment. That's what the stream is about Is fine you guys think what i'm saying what i'm saying is correct try it prove me wrong figure it out for yourself That's the most important thing Okay, what techniques can someone do to distinguish between the lies and truths you tell yourself, okay, this is a fantastic question How do you tell if you're lying? And how do you tell if you're you're being truthful? Okay, so how do you feel when you tell a lie You feel like you're being dishonest, how does that feel like wrong Like it feels wrong. Okay, it feels not good. So how does it feel like so there's some dark and nasty shit going on in your life And there are dark and nasty corners of your psychology and self, right? Yeah, and when you lie about yourself, like how do you feel? Not good. Okay when you come on stream and there are I can't see I'm a boomer 1.5. Okay when there are a thousand fifteen of 500 people Listening to you talking about the shittiest parts of your psychology. How do you feel? Fine There it is. How the fuck does that work? This is the stuff that you strive to hide This is the stuff that you keep tucked away. This is what's behind the shield and armor Right, this is like what's inside the turtle shell like how the fuck does that work? You work so hard to hide it and when you successfully hide it, how do you feel? How do you feel bullies when you hide it not the greatest and then when you air it out like your dirty ass laundry Like your sexual proclivities. How do you feel? Right generally pretty good. So sometimes people like shit on you but yeah So when you're lying to yourself I think the biggest thing to to check into is what is like what is your emotional response? Right when someone walks down the street if i'm walking down the street and someone calls me a retard And then i'm like, okay, man. What are you? If you say so And then if someone calls me a retard and i'm like, no, you're the fucking retard I'm like, okay, I'm a fucking retard Like that emotional response tells me what how I feel about myself if i'm truly confident like you suck at life man You're you're like a fucking poser. I'm gonna be like, okay you think i'm a poser fine It's your emotional response That is The important thing right if someone says calls you something nasty And I apologize if apparently I mean I know retard can be offensive so i'm sorry for using that word But like I think like if someone is is calling you something nasty The way that you respond to it tells you how you feel about yourself and when you're telling yourself truth or lying Like if you're telling yourself something that's true like you're gonna feel okay with it it can hurt But It can still feel like liberating it can feel freeing And lying feels protective. It like protects you from that negative emotion, but you feel like shit So I think that like that's a really important thing. So like how do you feel when you speak something? Right. Does it feel like you're you're getting through something and you feel like lighter at the end of it? Or do you feel heavier at the end of it? And that's I think the biggest way you can tell You feel like you're getting through something and you feel like you're getting through it And that's the way you can tell if you're lying So that's the way you can tell if you're lying So that's the way you can tell if you're lying Okay, so madame fey is asking oh god there's so many questions. Okay. We're gonna do like a few more questions. We're gonna do meditation What would you say if you're lying to someone in a position of power over Over you who has something against you So this is in general like i'm not I guess i'm about to promote hinduism, but it's not I don't really I don't think it's promoting hinduism One of the reasons I like hinduism like the reason i've gained a lot of value out of it It does not even in hinduism really But one of the reasons I like stories like the mahabharata is because there is this dichotomy between ram and krishna That at the end of the day like krishna is a shady motherfucker And sometimes I think the lesson that I learned from my mom and and sort of reading some of these things from hindus These are in all religions and also in like secular stuff, right? Like there's wisdom all over the place Is that there isn't like one system of morality? So what I like about eastern religions is that they don't sort of start with this idea that there's an objective right and there's an objective wrong In the east there's karma. There's just cause and effect And so if I throw something up in the air it's going to come down and we're the ones who place a value judgment about what We like and what we don't like But I think what I like about like this ram versus krishna dichotomy And I I talk about this a lot with my patients like who are in investment banking and executives and they're like power struggles and things like that Is that I don't think that there is like a stock answer to things And I think that there are like the whole point behind like krishna also being called god Is that he did things that are super shady? And I think that like what the lesson that I take away from that is that sometimes you have to do things that are shady If you want to move forward in life if you want to be happy in life Sometimes you have to do things that are shady And that if you're you're kind of like an open-ended like honest Like naive kind of guy you're going to get screwed That's I think one of the lessons that I learned from the muhabbar Um, okay Are hindu tales not hypothetical though, they're absolutely hypothetical That's the whole point right? I mean, maybe they're historically accurate. I don't know There's some people sort of claim that this stuff is real or not real I mean, I think the main question is not whether they're real or hypothetical. The main question is What you know, what do we take away from them? Like what can you learn from like reading stories and listening to stories and things like that? How can you apply some of these principles and test them in their own in your own life? Okay, um Um Okay, so too many questions. All right. So buleus I'm gonna ask you guys we're gonna we're gonna sort of stop questions here for a second So i'm gonna ask you guys. Do you guys want to do? Do y'all want to do? Do y'all want to do cleaning meditation first or regular meditation first Okay, so this is so we're gonna do cleaning meditation first, okay So this is what I want you guys to do I want you to close your eyes sit up straight And just feel feel this is gonna sound weird feel yourself don't touch yourself feel yourself All right, so close your eyes And just feel who you are And just take stock don't fucking type in twitch chat if you're typing in twitch chat you're not doing it So twitch chat needs to be quiet close your eyes And just take a moment to like feel the person that you are Like take stock of what's going on in your mind what's going on in your chest What's going on in your breath Just take a snapshot this is the before okay And now open your eyes And we're gonna clean For five minutes Just five minutes so clean for five minutes go bullies and the rest of twitch chat Okay, so i'm trying to figure out what do you guys think I should do should I go through the business cards of people that I'm returning stuff to or that I need to reach out to or should I write all these emails to You yeah like actually clean Okay business cards, I think you're right, okay So So So So You You You Okay, I think we're gonna clean for like two more minutes Five minutes All right, so i'm gonna start writing emails Oh, I guess I can't do this I think that's five minutes. Okay, fine. So Close your eyes Is that me yeah you and everyone else How do you feel talk to me Um Like a tiny bit better yeah in what way Just a little bit lighter Okay, that's how it works Okay supported active Good Okay, so now we're going to yes, there's a long way to go so bullies are you gonna clean your room today Am I gonna what are you gonna clean your room today? Sure, why not? Okay, good. Is that a lie? No, okay. No, sir. It's like my throat also don't die It's a very sensitive reflex pain, okay So now we're going to do another meditation, okay bullies you can pass on this So we're gonna do some agne chakra meditation because we did Third eye meditation don't eat No eating Yeah, no, you can't do this while you're eating Okay All right, so This is gonna be weird so I use my middle finger And I normally just have it out but i'm gonna have the thumb too because normally I don't have the thumb out But then I can get banned on twitch So what I want you guys stop eating You can't do you want to okay you can't you have to finish your food And then you can meditate you shouldn't eat while you meditate. Okay, i'm finishing it. Okay so do this All right, so I want you to Take about one centimeter Away from the point where your where your eyebrows meet sit up straight And then I want you to just hover your finger close your eyes and hover your finger over the point where your eyebrows meet Just focus on that part of your forehead don't touch just hover it Right above that part Keep it there eyes closed Hold the finger there no contact with the skin just focus on the sensation You Now relax your hand let it come down You continue to concentrate on that point of your forehead Direct your attention towards it You So So And now take a deep breath in Exhale slowly Deep breath in exhale for five seconds Breathe in Exhale for seven Last breath in Exhale for nine And take your palms put your palms together in front of you rub your palms together feel the friction the heat Then cup them over your eyes Slowly open your eyes Let your palms come down So How do you feel Feel all right I kind of switched to the adhd one where you focused on other noises and stuff because I was just like That's okay focused on You I really don't understand not giving me please. Okay. Sorry, huh? My buddy kept dming me and i'm like stop dming you about Just sending saying dumb stuff to me Anyways, what were you saying? Yeah, i'm just trying to keep up with twitch chat. I'm some people Yeah, so this is important right so ms gifs gummy dealer says I feel like a horn is going to burst out of my forehead Okay So this is what I want you guys to understand Okay meditation is not about like inner peace like sure you feel I know that you guys like feel calmer and stuff and like that's important But the reason I like to meditate is because I really enjoy spiritual experiences I like I enjoy experiencing strange sensations. I enjoy understanding and having experiences of like the self That are beyond like what happens in my mind And If you guys can't concentrate that's okay, we're going to teach you a lot of different meditation techniques But what I want you all to understand is that like if you feel like strange sensations in meditation as long as they're not Scary or painful or things like that continue doing that practice Because those feelings are a sign that the meditation is working properly if you don't feel that that's okay, too This meditation isn't for everyone So bullies defaulted to something else, which is fine So we're going to teach a lot of different meditation techniques the goal of teaching meditation on the stream So you guys need to understand this? Minds are different. Not everyone's mind is the same and the reason that there are dozens or 112 real different kinds of meditation techniques is that For different minds a different technique is going to attain Help you attain like that peaceful state of mind or give you give you a sense of your true self or all kinds of other Like random, you know lulu lemon yoga hippie kind of stuff And so try the different techniques see what works for you see what doesn't and you'll know when it works You'll start to have You'll start to have different experiences as you do different techniques and do what works and a bullious Yeah, so this is important, right? I want you guys to see what did bullious just do What did you do hurt? Nope before that? I don't know. I was like focused on the train noises outside. Yeah, he opened his window, right? He pulled his shades back Why did you do that? Because I was getting warm and because I kind of like the noise. Yeah good like your your room looks better like like Like your face looks better How do you feel? Like yeah a little bit better Yeah, so I think when you first came on you were smiling too, but it was an embarrassed kind of smile It was like kind of a shy like see you just did it again that was an embarrassed smile Your there it is so that's the embarrassed smile, right? Yeah. Yeah, so but but that's not how you felt before right? So can you go back to that? Is it working or hard Well, if i'm thinking about it, it's hard good trying so stop thinking about it and do right so listen to the noises close your eyes Feel the wind Feel that feeling of embarrassment and then return to the wind return to the sounds that you hear The sound of my voice The other sounds that you hear And notice that that embarrassment is holding on just a tiny bit which is okay, let it be there let the feeling be there Right and with it parallel to it also within you notice that peacefulness Understand that that embarrassment is going to be there that's okay How do you feel about being embarrassed Like fun, yeah, that's the fucking point Right, so your embarrassment and your emotions Keep you from doing the things that you need to do So what you need to learn is how to be free from embarrassment Keep you from doing the things that you need to do So what you need to learn is how to be fine with it Embarrassment restricts who you are it restricts what you're able to do in life and when you meditate You can learn to sit with that feeling and be fine with it. That's what we want Right. It's not to stop feeling It's to let your life not be controlled by what you feel And now that's not the smile of embarrassment, this is different this is a different smile. Can you guys see that? It's a different one The embarrassment smile is gone And there it is. It's coming back again. Now. It's back. You see this is what we do We turn it on and we turn it off. This is how you learn You learn how to control your ability to step in and out of emotion And now bullies step out of it. Do you can you do it or do you need my help? A little bit. I mean Good keep your eyes looking. Yeah, you're doing it right? You feel the embarrassment is still there We're not making it go away. This is really important because people think that you want to make the emotion go away So it doesn't control you anymore. That's what like bullies thinks that as long as The shame is there his behavior is going to be controlled. He wants the shame to go away. No, no, no, that's not the goal The goal is to air it out. Let it be there And now the genuine smile starts to return again Can you guys see like can y'all tell or is this just like am I hallucinating? Or can twitch chat tell can you guys tell the difference? Like can you guys see the two smiles that he has? The smile and and the embarrassment Can you get embarrassed again There it is there it is, right? And now what the coolest thing bullies is you're starting to be like okay with it right like you could play with it Are you playing with it? A little bit. Yeah, right and that's what I want you guys to do Is to understand that your emotions deserve a seat at the table, but they don't get to run the show That you can be fun and playful with the things that hold you back Right like and like even shame like you can sit with that You can learn to like be at the table with your shame and not let it control you not let it dominate And that's how you do it good job today bullies clean your fucking room Any questions from you before we wrap up Uh, not at the moment. No, okay. Are you you told me you were gonna clean your room so you're not allowed to lie. Okay? No All right, so i'm gonna hang up on in a second. All right, bro Take care. Good luck Okay