 Right. You started off as a deprived, so you had no gear. So when you get, because you run around in a loincloth in a club. I'm a slow rolling deprived for some reason. Yeah, right. It's like if someone deserves a break, it's you, buddy. So, Booleus, is that what I'm calling you today, buddy? Or Matt, either one. Okay. Doesn't bother me. So, Matt, thanks for coming on. Thanks for coming on stream, man. You're welcome. I mean, yeah, like I said earlier, should be one. Hey, thank you. So tell us a little bit about what's going on and what's going on in your life and how we can be helpful for you. I mean, it's like a lot of things, right? I'd say like, I kind of struggle with like moving forward in life and having a purpose and sort of like, just knowing what to do with myself, I guess. Motivation, definitely one big thing. Okay. And so when you say it's a lot of different things, that sounds to me kind of like one thing. What do you mean by that? Well, I mean, so it sounds like you just don't know what to do with yourself. That's why you don't have motivation. Like you don't know what you're doing in life. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's fair enough. Yeah. So why is it that we, if you just don't know what's going on, like why do we come up with multiple answers? Like, how do you think that works? Say that again. Well, okay. Let me ask you this. So the basic problem is that you're directionless in life, right? Right. But when I ask you what's bringing you on, you say it's a lot of different stuff. Right? Right. Right. So let's just, let's just explore for a second why it is that we feel like a lot of different things are going wrong when there's just one root problem. Maybe sort of the symptoms of that. Absolutely. Absolutely. So let me ask you something, Matt. Do you feel like you're overwhelmed? I'd say so. I think I'm pretty overwhelmed with everything. Yeah. Right. So I want you to just notice for a second that even though there's one problem, that the feeling of being overwhelmed makes you think that there are a thousand different problems. Like you see all of the symptoms and that's exactly what feeling overwhelmed does. When we feel overwhelmed, we take one problem and we can see all of the different things going on with it. And that overwhelms us and also paralyzes us. You're smiling. Why are you smiling? Either, I don't know, awkwardness or just realizing what you're saying. Okay. So how do you feel right now? Anxious, I guess. Okay. What do you mean by anxious? Just being on stream with like 50 people or whatever. Okay. Oh, wow. There are 50 people. Okay. Well, we'll lose viewership soon. Don't worry. Thanks for coming on and being honest with us because I think this helps a lot of people. So thank you for doing that. Yeah, no worries. So what is it that feels overwhelming? I'd say just trying to figure out because I feel like there's so many options with like what to do with my life. And it's also like, I don't really know how to find that or even figure out what I'm doing or what I'm doing wrong or. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I'm here. What I'm hearing from you is that you don't know where to start. I'd say, yeah, that's a pretty accurate statement. So I think that the challenge here is that I think, Matt, you're a smart guy. And so the problem with being a smart guy is that you can see many different options, right? Like you're a hypothetical analytical capability. You can say to yourself, oh, I could do this or I could do this or I could do this or I could do this. But then it's hard for you to figure out which one to actually do. Right. So what do you think it is that? So tell me, what don't you like about your life right now? I don't like how I feel about myself all the time. I don't like feeling like there's a lot of chaos and things that I struggle to do, like do the dishes or clean my room or do my laundry, like so much stuff that regular people can just do normally. Not feeling like I have a purpose or a goal, definitely, as well. OK. How do you feel about yourself? It's been slowly getting better, but I don't think I, a lot of time I just don't feel good in general. And that kind of applies to myself as well. OK. So like what? Just not liking who I am or I've been able to look in the mirror and like how I look more recently, but just like beating myself up over mistakes and stuff like that. OK. Do you feel like you're kind of a bad person? At times. Do you feel like you're a waste of space? No, I don't think I'm a waste of space. But OK. Yeah, I mean, I generally say I'm a pretty decent person. Like I try not to be a crappy person, but I mean, everyone has their moments. Good for you, man. But everyone what? Everyone has their moments, right? Like everyone can mess up and do things that aren't good, right? Yeah. And it sounds like you've been practicing it, forgiving yourself for those moments. Yeah, kind of. I think so somewhat. OK. So oddly enough, I'm not hearing anything that makes me think of. So it sounds like you have kind of a low estimation of yourself. Right. Help me understand what kind of thoughts you have. I mean, I can be like very critical of myself over things that are like dumb or like. Well, OK, hold on. So why do you think they're dumb? I think I don't know some things that aren't important. So do you see what you're doing right there? You're being critical of the way that you're critical of yourself because you're calling them dumb. Right. Right. You see that? It's a whole whole thing. Yeah, it's like a whole meta level thing. Yeah. So what are you critical of yourself about? It's hard to tell. It's hard to think. OK. OK. So let me help you out. So you mentioned earlier that you struggled to do a lot of things that normal people can do. Right. Like what? Like, yeah, like do my dishes. And I was going to the gym for a while, but then I stopped when you broke up and like doing recycling, like doing just like the general things like showering every day and OK, like take care, taking care of yourself. Yeah. Or not taking care of yourself. Right. Yeah. And is that something that so do you this is going to sound weird. Do you think that that's a dumb thing to be mad at yourself about or an appropriate thing to be mad at yourself about? No, that's that's appropriate. OK. So I want you to just notice the critical nature of your mind. Right. So like your mind has actually like a mode of operation. What? What game? You're a gamer. Yeah. What do you play? I was playing Dark Souls earlier. I also play a lot of like MMOs. I grew up on like Korean MMOs like MapleStory and stuff like that. OK. OK. So, you know, in Dark Souls, we have different loadouts. Right. Right. So right now your mind is equipped to the self-critical loadout. Right. And so it doesn't matter like what, you know, it's like. You know, so I would say the self-critical loadout is almost like slow rolling in Dark Souls. Like it doesn't matter what armor you're wearing. If you're slow rolling, you're slow rolling. So you can try to change as many different things as you want to about your equipment. But if you're if you're slow rolling, it's always going to be slow lowering. It's the only thing that your mind knows how to do. Right. So you can be self-critical. So the first thing that I want you to do, if you want to be free from your self-critical thoughts, there are a couple of things that we're going to work on. The first thing, though, is just to notice what your mind is doing. Right. Because. OK. So a lot of times, like we operate based on what our mind tells us to do, but we don't really question the operations of our mind. It's like if you wake up one day and you decide like, OK, I don't feel like showering, you sort of fight a little war with your mind, but you never try to understand, like, why is it that I don't want to shower? You try to fight your mind, you don't try to understand it. Right. So the first thing that I want you to do is just try to catch yourself when you make a self-critical thought. And we're going to talk some more and I'm going to keep an eye out for it. And I want to chat to keep an eye out for it. OK. OK. I'm not actually watching to chat, but I don't know. I mean, either. OK. If you were saying don't watch it, yeah, don't watch it. So. The first thing is just I want you to notice the self-critical mind and notice how like your neurons have basically locked into a pattern of self-judgment. And the reason that this is a problem, like if you are judging yourself and you're critical towards yourself, what do you think that does for your motivation? Does not help. OK. So I want you to now we're going to expand that a little bit. Do you think it motivates you to do some things? Yeah, I'd say sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. Like what? Um. Drawing blanks. OK, that's OK. So it's good enough that I think you're aware that maybe somewhere in there there's some kind of motivation. You're just not able to figure out what it is. And so let me help you out. So this is what I want you to understand, Matt. When you wake up to play video games, like if you play video games all day, like what I want you to think about for a moment and appreciate is not it's not that you lack motivation. It's just that you're motivated to play video games all day. Like if you think about like if you're playing video games so much that you're not like, let's say, showering or brushing your teeth or taking out the recycling, that's actually a very high degree of motivation. You're so motivated to play games that you're letting all this other basic stuff like fall to the side. Like imagine I was an artist and I went into my studio and for three days and three nights I shat in a bucket I didn't brush my teeth and I didn't shower and I produced this great work of art. We would call me highly motivated. Right? Yeah. But like so the first thing is that for you to understand that you actually have a lot of motivation, it's just not in the direction that you want. So this is where I think negative emotions and negative feelings about yourself are going to motivate you to do some things. And mainly what they're going to motivate you towards is to be avoidant. Right. That's pretty avoidant. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So give us some examples. Help us understand that. So for example, I got in a car accident with my ex like the end of September. And my parents didn't know about it until like two weeks or like a week or two. Yeah. I think about a week ago, like last weekend sort of thing because I was just like so scared of like how they would react that I just didn't didn't tell them. Okay. So let's think about that for a second. So when you're afraid of how they're going to react. How can I say this? So that sounds like a reasonable fear. Are your parents rough with you sometimes? I'd say so. Okay. Can you tell us a little bit about that? I know my brother's in here as well. So you can probably relate sort of but I think kind of my thoughts brother. My thoughts on it are I say my my I saw my dad recently because he lives in a province over so like kind of far and he can be very he can be very like abrasive I guess he can be very negative like hard to hard to get along with because he's always like complaining about stuff or I mean he's been better like he's been more supportive but that's like more recent. Sometimes I would like I would visit him and I'd be like I don't want to be here because just because of the way he acts like it's hard to be around him for like a long period of time. How does it how does it feel when you're around him? It just feels weird. I mean and it like it feels just awkward sort of thing I feel like. What feels weird about it? Just I think my relationship with him so it's like I don't know how to how to act around him like to treat him like a friend or like a dad like okay it's just odd. Yeah it sounds like you don't know what you're supposed to do when you're with him. Right. Like you don't know what to say or you don't know how to act or. Yeah I'd say it's generally kind of what it feels like with family and I feel like when I when I tried to be when I try to be like honest sometimes it can get me in trouble or. Can you help me understand that? So like I basically I had a whole big argument with my parents the other day over like I was kind of talking about my mental health with my mom and she didn't she's like oh do you think your your mental health affects your motivation? I was like yeah just like where do you think that comes from? And I'm like well I think when you guys got divorced that was kind of the the whole catalyst for everything right or the the starting point because that's in my mind that's where I think it was like where it started from. And what do you mean by that? What started when you how old were you when your parents got divorced? Probably seven or yeah like it's seven six seven eight somewhere in those three years. And what do you think it was that started? I think like just sort of like a downward spiral of of me not feeling good about myself and not doing like things I should be doing like my homework or just kind of yeah just not feeling good all the time or not not feeling like good about anything or sort of just the depression sort of thing I think. Okay. When you say the depression sort of thing so it sounds like you started to not do the things that you were supposed to do it sounds like you started to feel bad about yourself? I'd say so. It's hard my memory's kind of been messed up over the over the years it used to be a lot better but so I don't really remember a lot of it but I know that was like the starting point. What do you remember? I just remember feeling like really alone in my life for a long time. Like it's probably the the biggest thing. What is it like to feel alone? Just uh I don't know like there's nobody supports you or nobody cares about you enough to like wonder how you're feeling or or how you're doing or Did your parents did your parents ever talk to you about how the divorce was affecting you? Not really I don't think so. And you started feeling pretty alone around the age of seven or eight? Mm-hmm yeah. Is that how you feel? Sorry. Go ahead. Oh I was saying because um it was like that and then moving a lot and having like a new stepdad who wasn't the greatest and also other stuff right so kind of compounded I guess. Okay tell me about uh moving. Well I moved from Alberta to to to BC in uh probably I don't know how long later like within a year of the divorce. So it was like I had I lost all my friends and um. Was it hard to make new friends? At the at the first school I went to it wasn't too bad but um I moved to an after that I moved to an area that's like primarily uh East Indian people so like people similar to your ethnicity and because I'm like a white kid um it was harder to make friends right. So that's kind of part of it I think as well not having as many friends. Wow that sounds kind of rough because it sounds like you actually made the first transition okay made some friends and then it sounds like your mom and stepdad up and moved again. Yeah. Just when things were going well for you. Yeah. You're making an adjustment and life kicks you when you're when you're just about to get up right? Tends to I find yeah for sure. Yeah that's definitely you kind of talk about a downward spiral I think that'll do it. Sorry man that sucks. That's okay it's in the past I guess. I think it's in the present. Yeah. What do you think? Well I mean yeah it's still all that stuff still affects me right so yeah I think it's yeah yeah I think it's important to acknowledge that because what does that say about you as a person? That it still affects me or? Yeah because remember I mean somewhere along the way we were talking about how you're like not a it's not that you're not a good person but that you can't you know you're kind of fucking up. Yeah. Right that's the sentiment that I get it's not that you're a bad person it's just that you're kind of fucking up. I'd say so yeah. And so what I'm kind of curious about is like do you deserve a little bit of slack? I think so but I mean when I try to be honest with like I think so but I well when I tried to be honest with my parents about that like they just got angry and thought I was like blaming them for everything that I'd done and stuff. Uh-huh. It's like kind of understandable I mean I talked to about it with my therapist a little okay and I can understand why they got mad but it's like I don't know but I just want them to kind of understand that like everything had an effect on me but I don't think that's probably I don't think it's gonna happen so. Yeah I think it can be rough it can be hard for parents to understand that it can be hard for one human being to understand that my actions can affect you and that that doesn't necessarily mean that it's my fault but that at the same time it can be hard for you. Right. You know it can be very hard for parents to not hear blame when you kind of talk about something like a divorce which may have been the right move on some level. Still like I mean some some things are going to be shitty and like that's just how it is it doesn't mean that it's necessarily their fault. Right. Um so do you think you deserve some slack? I think so but I mean yeah at the same time I feel like I'm still pretty critical of myself like I'm still pretty critical of myself because of. Yeah right. Since there's the slow roll. Right. So so when we think a little bit about what you've been through like it's reasonable to think that you know you're not just fucking up everything I mean I think you've been dealt a kind of a rough hand. Right. You started off as a deprived so you had no gear. So when you get you get it's because you run around in a loincloth in a club. I'm a slow rolling deprived for some reason. Yeah right. That's like if someone deserves a break it's you buddy because you managed to slow roll in a loincloth like that's not easy to do in Dark Souls. So why don't you give yourself a break? Because I feel like I could be doing more to help myself but I'm not or I don't know how. And what is that? That's the slow roll. Right. See that? You're you're you're not doing good enough. You're fucking it up. You could be helping yourself more Matt. Why don't you help yourself more? There it is again. So I mean I think the hard thing is like you know these thoughts that you have are kind of like a hedge maze like everywhere you turn it's just hedge hedge hedge everywhere you turn it's like critical critical critical. Right. Right. It's hard to get anywhere when you're slow rolling. Just takes a long time. And so what do we what do we do about that? I don't know. Okay. How do you think if you were your friend what would you do? Still the same. I still don't know. Okay. I just yeah my situation I don't know. It's just weird to think about. I don't know what I would even do. I'd probably help someone but I don't know how I'd help them. Okay. So oddly enough Matt that's the first fast roll you've done. I want to point out what you did right so like you said like you were doing a lot of I want to point out what you did right so like you said like I don't know how I would help them but I would I want to help. Right. They deserve help. I just don't know how. That's not self-critical. That's actually like acknowledgement. You see that? If not you gotta let me know. What do you mean by it's acknowledgement? So I think that you're in a tough situation and you don't know how to move forward but there's a big difference between the slow roll which is why don't you know how to move forward Matt? Right. And I don't know how to move forward. Do you see the difference between those two statements? Yeah. What's the difference? One's more constructive. In what way? Okay. It's not just me beating myself. Yeah. I think the other thing is it's an acknowledgement of where you are because all of your self-critical thoughts are about where you should be. Does that make sense? Yeah. You should be helping yourself more. You should be taking care of yourself better. You shouldn't let all the stuff from the past affect you. We can replace all those self-critical thoughts with the word should. There's actually a big difference between I should be helping myself more and I don't know how to help myself. Even though that sounds like a statement of ignorance, I actually think it's a statement of knowledge. It's I know that I don't know what to do. Right. That I actually think is incredibly powerful although it may not feel like it. But I think that's the first step forward in sort of saying, hey, like I'm sort of stuck here. I'm not hearing any blame. I'm not hearing like, why am I stuck here? Like, why did I end up in this place? Why couldn't I get out of this place? You're just kind of saying like, well, here I am. I don't really know what to do. Here I am, the slow rolling deprived. It's going to be hard to beat anything if I'm slow rolling around with the, you know, with the obese body type in Dark Souls. Can't even beat Gundyr. Yeah. Gundyr is hard, man. Yeah, I died to him three times. Every other boss I've beaten in one try besides Pontiff. So Gundyr is in three, right? Or is there a Gundyr? Wait, yeah, yeah, yeah, in three. Yeah. But the way to beat Gundyr is just two-handed club and you don't need to roll. He's got to stun his ass. He's got low fatigue, right? Or whatever that is. Guard break or whatever. Poison. Yeah. Just go to town and that's what you got to do. Stop slow rolling. Just go to town. Start picking up the club, I guess. Yeah. So what does picking up the club for you? What does that mean? Doing something that feels like I'm moving forward, I guess. Yeah. I would even take a step back from feels like you're moving forward. Just do something. Move forward. What does that mean, practically? Like, yeah, just try to do something that will lead to something better, I guess. Yeah. What does that mean? I don't know. What's something that you're not doing right? You mentioned a couple of concrete things. Right. What have you mentioned? Like what? Like cleaning my room. Okay. What in your room needs to be cleaned? I need to do my laundry and dishes and stuff. Laundry and dishes. How long does that take? There's a lot of laundry, so it's gonna take a while. But I think the dishes would take me maybe like a half hour. And how long? How are you going to do your laundry? Like, just put it in the washing machine and then the dryer. Okay. So we're going to do a little bit of meditation because I hear people on stream want to do more meditation. Okay. So I want you to close your eyes. Sit up straight. I want you to tell me how you feel right now. I don't know. Kind of anxious a little, I think. But okay. Anxious. Okay. Generally okay. What do you feel in your body? Just like my hands, I guess. Okay. So I just want you to take a snapshot of how you feel right now. I want you to notice that there's some anxiety, but I would guess that there's a certain heaviness which you've gotten used to feeling. Does that make sense to you? Yeah, I'd say so. You kind of feel heavy? A lot of the time I'd say yeah. Okay. So I want you to check your encumbrance right now and just make a mental note of what it is. Okay. Okay. That's what we're going to do. So now I want you to open your eyes. You have dishes in your room? Yeah. Okay. So you have, was the washing machine being occupied? No. Okay. You know where I'm going. I'm going to go do dishes and wash. Yeah. So I want you to come back in 10 minutes. Do what you can. 10 minutes? Okay. Go put in a load of laundry. You have a phone or something? Yeah. So set a timer. Okay. And go put in a load of laundry and do as many dishes as you can. Okay. Right. So what are we doing right now? You're equipping that club. You made the mistake of hitting the right direct D-pad button. So you swapped out the club for the fist and then. For the broken straight sword? Yeah. For the broken straight sword. There it is. And that's not going to work because that's not going to hurt the none of poise damage. So go. Twitch chat is waiting. Okay. I'm losing viewers as we speak. Okay. Okay. So I know that Twitch chat, I hear people saying, God, I need someone like this in my life who motivates me to do things. So newsflash Twitch chat, you can do something too. So I want you guys to think about the same thing, right? We're going to do, I want you guys to close your eyes and think about how you feel. Feel the energy in your body or the lack thereof. Feel the fatigue. Like focus on your lower back and feel like the gel in your lower back. Like feel the heaviness. Just close your eyes and just feel the way that you feel right now. Now get, now open your eyes and look around. If you've already done, yeah, if you don't understand what I'm saying, that's okay. Look around at the things that you need to do. And we've got seven minutes. So what can you do in seven minutes? If you haven't, if you've already done your laundry, fine. Is there anything that you need to clean? Do you need to go through your mail? Do you need to do anything? Do you have dishes to do? You need to brush your teeth. Okay. So if you've got dishes, go do your dishes. And then otherwise, if you guys don't have anything else to do, I'm going to do one round of surya namaskar and you guys can do it with me. Okay. So I want you guys to follow along and up straight in front of you. Let your heels touch better. And then arms up. Touch your biceps. Feel the stretch. And touch your toes. Let your head hang. Let the weight of your body drive you down. Okay. You guys hear me? Okay. Let the weight of your body hang down. Now put your palms by your feet, straight line and extend one knee back. So your two hands in one, your left foot should be the line. Your other foot should be back. Put the other foot back. You're going to kind of be in a push-up position. Now lay down on the ground. Put your forehead, chest, and knees touching the ground. Stick your butt up in the air a little bit. Now push up, put your hips to the ground. Push up. If you want hips on the ground and you want your back bent, elbows bent is fine. Main goal is that your hips and your toes should be touching the ground. Feel that stretch in your back. Now we're going to go into downward dog. So put your heels, try to keep your toes and your heels on the ground. Stretch back a little bit. Let your ears meet the level of your biceps. Now right foot forward in line with your two hands. Left foot back. Back. Left foot forward. Your self-pane. Arms up. Close your eyes, take a deep breath. Alright. Yeah, I realize that that's probably not the ideal way to do yoga because you guys can't, you know, that's going to be tough. But... So, I'm gonna... I had to do this in the restroom so I criss-tiffed. Dishwashing stream. Okay. Yeah. So, Si6 says, I like it that you can't touch your toes. Be the change that you want to see in the world. I want to see a bunch of inflexible gamers trying to touch their toes, not a bunch of flexible yoga teachers actually touching their toes. So, I have a question for you guys. What do you guys think... How do you guys think that Buleus is going to feel when he comes back? Anyone have any idea? Okay. Let's see. Alright, so we'll see. He's got about a minute or two. And then... Well, I mean, I think his laundry is going to be in the washing machine for a while longer. Yeah, so... What do you guys think about that? Like, what are we really doing here? Like, aren't we supposed to be talking about his feelings? I'm a psychiatrist. Isn't that what we talk about? Doesn't he need therapy? We're talking about how he's depressed, his parents are divorced, he feels alone. How does this work? Why am I doing this? And the other question is... So, how is it that Twitch chat... So, I'm just going to read out loud. Exhausted, much better, lifted, lighter, accomplished, motivated, refreshed, and slightly proud, anxious at peace. Miniquest completed better. Dishes aren't nagging him anymore, relieved, energized. I beat the timer. Nice. Okay. So, did you guys hear what he said? What did he say? I said it. Oh, am I supposed to say it? What did you say? I beat the timer. Nice. Yeah. I didn't think I was going to hear you say the word nice in the way that you did over the course of our session today. Does that make sense? Oh, because... What is that nice? What does that mean? How does that feel? It's like a good feeling. Yeah. How do you feel right now? Better. In what way? I feel like I accomplished something. Or I did something that I needed to do. Close your eyes. Okay. How do you feel? Um... A little better, yeah. Just... kind of happy. Excited. Okay. How's your encumbrance? A little better, but I still feel heavy. Yeah. So, Boulius, I think you have a lot of work ahead of you, man. I think so, yeah. How do you feel about that? I don't know. Indifferent, maybe? Mm-hmm. What happens to that feeling of slight excitement as you start to think about the problems ahead? It's like, oh, shit. Absolutely right. That's the feeling. So, now, this is the big revelation. So, like, if I wanted to sell you guys a false sense of joy and hope, I wouldn't have asked you, what do you think about the future? We would have stopped the stream with, how do you feel? You say, better. And then I say, cured. Rise and walk. You are cured, my friend. I have fixed it. But that's not how it works. So, now we're going to wade back into the shit. And when you start thinking about changing your life, you start to feel like this is insignificant. Right. Right? Yeah. So, now we're going to do the real teaching, okay? Okay. Which is, what is the difference between how you felt 60 seconds ago and how you feel now? Or actually, not what is the difference. So, you understand that you feel different. You felt good 60 seconds ago now, making you feel worse again. Right. Indifferent means that the evil, the evil, the evil, the evil, the evil ogre that has been lurking in your mind is starting to come out again. And it's like, like you feel conflicted because you feel hope. And that specter is still there. Does that make sense? I don't think it's truly indifference. I think it's conflict. Right. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, what, so let's just think about what the mind was doing when you were feeling good. And what the mind was doing when you started to feel bad. Was your mind in the past, present or future when you were feeling good? Present. And when I ask you, what does this mean for you going forward, where is your mind? Future, right? Yeah. Yeah. And when you're critical about yourself, where is your mind? Past or future. Beautiful. Okay. So now I just want you to appreciate that for a second. And now we're going to do, I want you to do another experiment for us. Okay. And then we're going to move to Q&A, Buleas, unless you want to like talk about your parents and stuff. Oh, yeah. I don't mind. I can talk more about it. I feel though that like the best way to help you right now is to actually have you do to notice this for a minute. So I'm going to ask you to continue. You still have more shit to clean? Yeah. Okay. So we're going to transition to Q&A, but I want you to pay attention to something and I want you to check back in with us in about 15, 20 minutes, half an hour. I want you to do more work and then try to notice where your mind is. Like as you do more work, like try to get a sense of, okay, is my mind in the past, the present or the future? And then I want you to come back on in about 15, 20 minutes after we answer a few questions. And then we're going to talk some more. And I want you to try to notice as you start to feel bad, where does your mind go? Okay. Okay. Do you have thoughts about what the punch line is or do you want to just wait until we get to the, like until you actually do it? Well, I'm sure the punch line is future bad, present good. Okay. So experiment, right? So this is what I want you guys to do at home as well is like understanding intellectually what the punch line is, is helpful. But what really needs to be done is an experiential understanding. In Sanskrit, there are two words for knowledge, vidya and jnan. Vidya means information. Vidya is transmissible and it's objective. Jnan is experiential, personal and subjective. Our society, Matt, which one do you think our society values more? Probably the former. The former, yeah. Vidya, right? Yeah. Information and objective. I completely agree with you. But if you want to change your life, vidya doesn't do it. Information does not change your life. Experience changes your life. So knowing the punch line and feeling the punch line are two different things. Right. Like you're a smart guy and I bet I could have asked Twitch chat about like, you know, past, present, future. But I just want you to appreciate for a moment that when you were living in the present, you actually started to feel better. You felt excitement. Twitch chat was saying that you looked happy. Right. Like you were smiling, but that wasn't an anxious, I'm embarrassed because I'm fucking talking to the internet smile. That was like the, oh, I actually did something today. Smile. Those are two different things. And then just think about all of the times that you're feeling bad. Where is your mind? Somewhere else, yeah. Yeah. So now go and test it. Right. So go and continue to do work and check back with us in 15, 20 minutes. Okay. I'll do some recycling. Okay. So like how long, what are you doing? Are we doing 15 minutes, 20 minutes? Help me understand. What are we doing? Let's try 15. I'm sure there's more stuff I could do anyways. Okay. 15. Yeah. Plenty of stuff I could do. Okay. So we'll check back with you in 15. Okay. I'll set a timer and then I'll just put music in or whatever. Okay. Okay. So Vidya and Neon. Okay. Set the timer. Good job, dude. Go for it, buddy. All right. We can talk about your feelings when you get back. Awesome. Okay. We're going to jump to Q&A for a little bit. All right. So first question. Okay. Our dude is back. So we're going to switch. All right. So I don't know how much of our conversation, do you catch any of our conversation? I heard like basically like the latter half of that last thing about girls. Okay. So the question that we had was about like, should you focus on yourself or should you ask girls out? But let's come back to the present. So tell me how you feel, Matt. Pretty okay. What does that mean? Like not crappy, just okay. Okay. Kind of observant or something like unconscious. Beautiful. Right. So this is something that's actually really cool that's happening. So now you've noticed that there's a third way of operating. It's not good or bad, but that there's actually like there's perpendicular movement on that axis. Like earlier we were talking about feeling good or feeling bad. And now you've discovered that there's a third layer. Like there's like a layer up here. Does that make sense? Yeah. And you're just watching yourself. Right. And that that thing doesn't feel good or bad. Right. Okay. I'm going to ask you something. Do you feel peaceful? Yeah, I'd say peaceful is a good word for it. Right. So this is something that's really important to understand. Peacefulness and suffering is on a different axis from emotion. Excitement, happiness, joy, sadness, self-loathing. All of those operate over here. And peacefulness and suffering are up here. Okay. Do you do you? It's sort of like a neutral feeling, right? Yeah. Like you're watching yourself. Right. Yeah. So that's the first step to something called viragya or detachment. There's space. You used to be all here and now a piece of you has moved over here. And it's kind of like a weird neutral. Like it doesn't feel bad. It doesn't feel joyous, but it sort of feels good. It's kind of chill. It's like peace. How often do you feel like that? Not often, I wouldn't think. Absolutely. I think this is a relatively new experience for most people. Now the question is, how did you get there? Not really. Not sure. Yeah. But so let's just let's just understand what's happening. You're starting to feel a little bit peaceful. You don't know exactly how it happened. You're kind of okay with it. It's not excitement. But how would you would you be okay feeling this way for eight hours a day? Yeah, it's. Yeah, fair enough. Yeah, I think so. Probably eight hours is enough. Yeah. What do you mean by it? So when you when you're hesitating, is it because you want to feel that way more or feel that way less? I don't know. I don't like sitting in one emotional state like you're stuck in it, I guess. Yeah. So I don't think this is actually an emotional state. For the record, I think this is separate. That's what I was trying to explain to you is that like pieces up here, but it's not like you're in a state of being. You can you can actually cultivate the sense of peace while you're feeling happy or while you're feeling sad. Right. And I know that that's when you say, right. Do you understand? Does that make sense to you or you're just logically agreeing with me? No, that makes sense. OK, so please explain this to us. What do you mean by that? How is that possible? What do you feel? I know you're feeling a little bit of a sense of peace. I know you're feeling a little bit of a sense of peace. I know it's new to you, but like just stumble through the words, baby. Like you kind of feel things. Yeah, like down here. But like you're sort of more aware and like thinking about how they affect you and like on a probably more logical plane, I guess. OK, I want you to pay attention to what you said. How they affect you. Right. There is a difference between your negative emotions and you. Which until this moment, I'm not sure you appreciate it because you used to be your negative emotions. Does that make sense? Yeah. But now you're noticing that your negative emotions are not actually who you are. They are over there and you are over here. I know it's kind of weird and abstract, but like I really got to know if you're with me or if you're not with me because it's OK to not make sense. No, it makes sense. Right. So how does it feel to be separate from your negative emotions? Like good. Yeah. So have you heard of this thing called enlightenment? Yeah, I mean, I think what's your kind of heard of it? Yeah. What's your understanding of what the fuck does that even mean? Yeah, that's kind of. I'll give you. So now, Matt, you have taken the first step forward because enlightenment is when all of your emotions become fully separated from who you are. And that separation is permanent. So that the small inkling of peace that you have now becomes your default state and encompasses your entire awareness. That's what enlightenment is. Right. So somehow, somehow you've started to cultivate a sense of detachment and separation from your negative negative emotions and you don't know how you did it. So what what do you think happened? How the fuck did like what did you do? I don't know. I was just thinking about random stuff. I was like, listen to music and I was enjoying it. Okay. So were you in the past, the present or the future? I'd say more so the present. Okay. I was thinking about stuff that like, yeah, I was thinking about like the stream and just the way it was. I was like thinking about stuff that like, yeah, I was like thinking about like the stream and just like answers to questions and random stuff. I don't know. Okay. So your mind was active, but you were like kind of reflecting. Yeah. And maybe like daydreaming a little. Okay. So your mind was operating and you got some more work done. Yeah, I did like a lot of the recycling. Okay. Like groceries and stuff. And how do you how do you feel right now? Like peaceful. Yeah. Okay. So I'll take it. Okay. So what does this mean for you going forward, Matt? Have we cured you? No, of course not. Of course not. It's a step in the right direction. There we go. I'll take it. So now the question becomes, what's the next step? Right. It's not rhetorical. I'm actually asking. Oh, um. Not sure. Probably figure out what I want to do with my life or something. Oh, that's not a step, buddy. That's a that's a journey. No, that's like that's like that's like saying, okay, like what's the next step? And you're saying like, okay, I'm going to climb to the top of Mount Everest. Figuring out what you want to do in life is not a step. That's the goal. That's like what you reflect back on when you're 80 years old on your deathbed. That's when you figure that out. What's the next step, Matt? How did you get to this peaceful place? Doing stuff and thinking. Absolutely. Doing stuff and thinking. That's the motto. That's the motto. You're absolutely right. Action and reflection. That's a fancy self help meditation, yoga, hippie. Whole Foods magazine action and reflection. But really what it is is doing stuff and thinking. So what are you going to do? What what is some stuff that you can do? Um. See, there's an easy answer to this question. What needs to be done? Right. Actually, give me an answer. Probably clean more or beautiful. Or what? I mean, there's like plenty of things that could be doing, right? So there's no like one right answer. Absolutely. So just pick something. So cleaning and what else? Pick one more thing. Well, I wanted to like kind of figure out what I want to do with streaming because I've been streaming, but maybe edit videos or something. But I feel like that'd be later because I want to figure out what I'm going to do with that first. So OK, so how does one figure out what one wants to do? No clue. OK, I'd start by talking to someone. About what? So you want to figure out what you want to do with streaming, right? Yeah. So I try to find a sounding board. So like try to find someone that you can talk to about streaming. So I try to find a sounding board. So like, try to find someone that you can talk to about streaming. Right, OK. Like, who can you talk to about streaming? Like my friends or something. Yeah. I mean, is that actually something you could do? Yeah, I mean, I could do it. Yeah. OK, so clean. Talk to your friends about streaming. And then what was the other thing you said? You said do things and and what? And think. Oh, thank you. OK. So what are you going to reflect on? Uh, not sure. OK, that's perfectly fine. So I'm going to tell you what I want you to do. So you did something that was a little bit more than thinking. You did some noticing. And so if you want to cultivate that peaceful sense within yourself, it's not about thinking. It's about thinking. It's about thinking. So you're going to think about what you want to do. You're going to think about what you want to do. And so if you want to cultivate that peaceful sense within yourself, it's not about thinking. It's about awareness or noticing. You paid attention to what you were feeling and thinking. You observed it. Mm hmm. And do you see how paying attention can pay paying attention? Does that happen in the past, the present or the future? Present. Absolutely. So I just want you to pay attention, pay attention to your thoughts, pay attention to your physical sensations, pay attention to music. Whatever you are paying attention to, just think about like what were you actually paying attention to? Where was your attention focused over the last 15 minutes? Okay. And as long as you can notice and you can act and you can clean, then you're going to start to feel this way more and more. And we can get into as much psychological bullshit about your parents and depression and all that kind of stuff. All that stuff has value. That's really what therapy is about. Twitch is about changing. Twitch is about changing your life. Therapy is about feeling better. So you have a therapist, right? Yeah. Okay. Well, counselor, I don't know. It's all. Yeah. It's the same thing, right? Same difference. Okay. Any questions for me? Uh, not really, no. I always struggle with whenever someone asks me that, so. Yeah. Good. So I want you to notice what was that? Was that a fat roll or slow roll? I mean, sorry, slow roll or fast roll? Fast roll. That was a fast roll, right? But just think about that. Like you were making a statement about your ignorance, but it was actually a fast roll. You're like, I struggle. Is this honesty or? Yes. Yes, my friend. That's exactly what it is. How does it feel to be honest about your ignorance? Good. I'd say, yeah, this feels pretty good. See, that's fucking weird. Shouldn't you be ashamed about showing the internet how ignorant you are? No. You should be, but you're not. So this is the other thing that I want to explain to all of you guys out there. Your negative emotions have power over you as long as they live in the darkness. Like what is therapy? How does therapy help people? You're talking about your negative shit that you keep inside and we know that that therapeutically helps people. That's what it does. That's what it's for. And crazily enough, Matt, when you were honest about the stuff that you suck at in life, you feel better. Right. But when you are not even honest and you judge yourself and you talk about hypotheticals and you talk about should, that's all inauthentic and that makes you feel bad. So be honest with yourself and it's okay to suck. It's okay to be rejected. It's okay to fail. It's okay to do all that stuff. Just be honest with yourself and then cut yourself a break. Cut yourself a break. Because like what can you really expect when it comes to Goondir if you're like a fucking encumbered, deprived with a club? Yeah, not going to happen. Yeah. Right. So cut yourself a break and like acknowledge that you're going to need to grind for a little bit. Maybe find yourself a decent weapon and like some armor and a helmet and like a set of gloves and then you can like, you know, you can go back. Your life isn't over. It requires a little bit of grinding, which in this case is cleaning and talking to your friends about streaming and practicing like noticing. And then you're going to like level up your meditation stat. And as your meditation stat goes up, you're going to get, you know, you're going to get to like you can get a mala, which is like your little, what's the thing? That's the stick. What are they called in Dark Souls? What stick? Torch? Like, no, no, no, not the torch. The spell casting items. Catalyst? Catalyst, that's right. Talisman? Yeah, that's right. That's right. Talisman, catalyst, right? So like, so give yourself a little bit of time and work at it and level up a little bit and you can do it. I have faith in you, man. Thanks, buddy. How does that, how does it feel to hear that? Um. I don't know. I don't know. Whenever it doesn't have an impact on me anymore, I feel like. Yeah, I can tell. You've never said thanks buddy over the course of this conversation. Like, what's that? I kind of just say it when someone compliments me because I don't know how to react. There you go. See, that's inauthentic. Thanks buddy is inauthentic. I can smell it from a fucking mile away. It's like, Jesus. Okay. So if you don't know how to accept a compliment, that's a conversation for a different day. Right. If you can't accept a compliment and you can't accept that people have faith in you, it's because you don't see, you don't see worth in yourself. You think I'm just wrong. Or you think I just don't get it. But anyway, conversation for a different. Right. That makes sense? Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. So we got to talk about being unable to accept compliments too. I think that's important. Okay. But thanks for coming on. Anyone have questions for my Lord Booleus? Oh, now I get to look at chat. Yeah. The slow rolling deprived. Two thumbs up. I think we're going to do, we're going to do. Okay. So people are saying thank you. Yeah. So thank you. Matt, I think, I think you talked about a lot of really important stuff. We appreciate that. Yeah. I appreciate, well, I appreciate you helping me realize and having an impact and stuff. Yeah. I love it. See, that's authentic. I appreciate you helping me realize and having an impact and stuff. That's it, baby. That's where the magic happens. Seriously, man, thank you so much for coming on. I think, you know, I really do think you're going to be okay. You just got to work at it, right? You got to level up a little bit. You got to understand that like you can't take out Pontiff with your slow rolling stick. Like you got to be, you got to get yourself some loot. And that takes time and cut yourself a break because, you know, your stats, like you forgot to spend, your life is the equivalent of not spending any of your stats at level one. It doesn't mean that you're just permanently worse. It's just, you've got to like, you know, you got to just spend those points and you'll be amazed at what you can accomplish. Right. Yeah. Okay. And then, you know, if you're if you're, you know, we let us know how you're doing. We can come back on. And if there's stuff, are you going to watch this VOD? I was thinking about saving it. Yeah. Yeah. So watch the VOD. And then if you want to come back on in like a couple of weeks and talk about something else and give us an update on how you're doing, I think that'd be great. Okay. Okay. Do you want to set that up now so I don't forget about it? Look at that. Okay. Yeah. Let's do so you don't forget about it. So I don't handle my own schedule. It's not forgetting about it. It's like I. Yeah. I understand what you mean. I'll put it off or something. So you guys see this? This is important. So Matt is realizing he wants to make a change. And Matt is also recognizing that like there's a part of him that unless he holds himself accountable, he's going to like let himself slip. You guys see that? You see that, Matt? Yeah. You're kind of saying now or never. So let me ask you something, Matt. Where are you operating in right now, my buddy? Are you operating in the past, the present or the future? Present. Absolutely. Right. Even though you're scheduling something in the future, you're operating in the present. So we're going to do the 20th. 20th. Okay. Okay. Yeah, sure. Your room better fucking be cleaned by then. I'll try. I'll try. Okay. It'll be in a better state. I don't know if it'll be 100% clean, but... Why not? Wait, hold on. Why can't it be? Because what? There's things in the way. Like I need to get someone to help me with the IKEA furniture. So I actually have somewhere to put my clothes and other things. Do you not know anyone? I know some people, but how do I tell my callsign, like, hey, can you help me build this IKEA furniture? I can't do it. Okay. So if you need... Do you have friends? I do. I just, I don't know if they would actually want to help me with building the furniture. Yeah. So how are you going to find out? Asking? Absolutely. Right? So be like, hey, man, I need some help building some furniture. Can you give me a hand? If you need help building furniture, I will help you as well. Or pizza's on me. Right. Yeah, seems like a good idea. Okay. And try that and see what happens. Okay. Okay. Sure. There's no shame in failure. There's only shame in not trying. Yeah. You think someone who plays Dark Souls wouldn't be so scared of failure, but here I am. There you go. Right? Oh, now we're playing ball. Now, now Matt's playing the Dark Souls analogy game. It's not just me. So this is good. I'm happy to hear that. Yeah. Okay. Good luck, man. Okay. Thanks, buddy. See ya. Oh, that was a genuine thanks, buddy. I can tell. I can tell. I know. Okay. I'll watch the stream now. Yeah. You guys see how well Matt is doing? Matt is being able to tell when he's authentic or inauthentic, like already. And you guys can tell the difference too, right? You can tell the difference between the bullshit thanks, buddy, and this thanks, buddy. This is actual appreciation. He's doing it. This is great. Strong work, man. I'll let you go now. Okay. Awesome. Okay. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.