 All right. So today we're going to talk about how to deal with people who are emotionally manipulative And this is like such a big problem because there are some people out there who if you are in a relationship with them Always make things your fault, right? Like even when you criticize them or you're kind of like trying to tell them to hey stop doing this You really need to be doing better If you say anything to them like any kind of conflict or even remotely thing that's close to conflict somehow becomes your fault So they engage in particular behaviors or like evoke certain feelings in you where they kind of make you feel like crap And then you're in this weird sort of situation where like every moment that goes by or every day that goes by They're kind of sitting there and you're feeling like worse and worse and worse and then you even see that they're doing this to you You see that like hey i'm feeling manipulated i'm being put into a corner, but you can't like deal with it Right so the guilt builds up or you feel like more and more of an asshole and eventually you kind of give in And then there's some degree of harmony for some amount of time But inside you there's like some amount of resentment building up too, right? Because you kind of you were trying to tell them like hey This problem in this relationship that we're having like you're somewhat responsible for it, too But if you ever open that door with them The emotional manipulation begins again So they'll engage in particular behaviors or like make you feel a particular way And then it's almost like they're like bludgeoning you or bullying you Using your own emotions And so you feel out of control and you feel powerless and you feel frustrated But this is the kind of tricky thing is like even if you ever try to set a boundary with them They make you feel like an asshole and if Advocating for yourself in a relationship makes you feel Like an asshole or a piece of shit That is a problem and today we're going to teach you a little bit about how to deal with that situation how to understand that Situation how to understand yourself how to understand them and literally what to say to sort of level that playing field And help them take responsibility if you're in a situation like this You really encourage that person to seek at least a mental health evaluation because a lot of these things It's not that this person is bad It's that the way that they learned how to relate to their own emotions may be indicative of some kind of traumatic experience in childhood Where therapists could really help them on the flip side if you're in one of these situations You can absolutely get therapy as well to sort of help you manage the stress But this is sort of why we designed a coaching program to sort of help people understand these kinds of principles As you go through life, what is it that controls your behavior? What are the things in your life that like You know, we're wrong, but you can't really fix because there's something internal that gets in the way So if you really want insight into like, okay Why do I procrastinate or why do I end up in these situations over and over and over again? Or how do I better understand this balance? Of okay. This is what's an appropriate emotion and this is what's inappropriate And how can I balance those things to move in the right direction then definitely check out coaching? So let's start with this Who are you? You are a good person You are someone who does not like to feel negative emotion and you are someone who when you feel bad about something You tend to try to do things to fix it This is what it usually takes to develop a relationship with someone who emotionally manipulates you, right? You have to be like when you feel guilty or ashamed or angry or something like that You need to deal with those negative emotions by fixing something in the situation So if i'm feeling guilty, I can't just sit and feel guilty I'm not like an asshole who can just be like, eh screw you right that actually bothers me I can't be a sociopath. So I have to be like when I feel negative emotions I have to do something to fix those negative emotions, which means chances are you are a decent human being Now let's talk about the person that you're in the relationship with now this person Is not necessarily a bad human being by any means and i've worked with a lot of people who are very emotionally Manipulative who have like psychiatric diagnoses and so we'll talk about that in a second But the most common thing for the person who is emotionally manipulative is a history of trauma So they may have a diagnosis may not have a diagnosis. We're talking about things like cptsd. We're talking about bpd We're talking about growing up with parents who are narcissistic or abusive So chances are the person that you're in the relationship with has some degree of trauma The other thing that we really have to consider is that the way that they manage their emotions is by Offloading them onto another human being. So let's take a look at how that works Okay Here's you Okay, and here's the person you're in the relationship with And when you're in a relationship with someone sometimes something happens there's some kind of conflict or whatever Like it doesn't it doesn't really matter what it is But this person starts to feel some amount of negative emotion And so as their negative emotion starts to build up What is the way in which they process or deal with that negative emotion? Now this is the key thing to understand about trauma when we have a history of trauma in our lives or even It's not like you have to be, you know assaulted in some way or something like that It can also be like in a neglectful household. The key thing here is These are people who when they were growing up did not learn usually growing up Did not learn how to manage their emotions in a healthy way So what does this mean for you? This means as their negative emotions Start to rise what are you know? What a healthy human being would do is they'd start to like manage these emotions through stuff like meditation or therapy Or you know going for exercise or maybe having a spa day, you know like going out with friends And then you know like like sort of offloading those emotions in sort of a healthy way Maybe playing volleyball or video games or whatever, but that's not what these people do. What do these people do? They transfer their emotions over to you. So as they start to feel bad They engage in certain kinds of behaviors or they use words or something like that that then makes you start to feel bad right, and so like a good example of this is like Let's say you're dating someone and you'll get into an argument and you're pissed off at them because whatever whatever you guys get into Some kind of argument and they do this kind of thing where they just like start crying Right, and they don't like talk to you. They just start crying They start to feel bad their negative emotions start to rise and then they don't say anything to you Or they'll say like I wish that you understood me or I wish you would listen or like I just feel so Unloved right now or like they'll just say like some random crap like they don't even necessarily accuse you in some situations It is absolutely like an accusation. We'll get to those in a second But as this negative emotion starts to build up like they start transferring it over to you, right? They're like some kind of I don't know like some Reverse energy vampire kind of thing where instead of like sucking your negative emotion away They're like transferring negative emotion to you. It's like some kind of umbilical cord where then what happens is as you start to feel guilty Right, then this guilty becomes unmanageable and like why is and this also kind of explains Why i'm so excited about this so why like Every scenario ends up like this. It's because even if both y'all are fighting There's this umbilical cord where they are transferring their negative emotion to you which explains Why no matter what the conflict is you always end up feeling like crap and they're like kind of okay with it Do y'all get that like there are these scenarios where both y'all are fighting but something is happening where like the longer the fight goes The more stable they seem to get and the more unstable you're getting and that's because there's this emotional transfer of energy They'll engage in particular behaviors. They'll say certain things that make you feel worse and worse and worse. And now here's the key thing So since you are someone Who does these kinds of things right so you manage that emotion through healthy behaviors, you don't just transfer it to someone else Usually what you end up doing is the this emotion gets so much to bear because not only is it like your own intrinsic guilt Which is maybe like this much of it, right? This is your own intrinsic guilt, but then there's the transferred guilt as well So that what this sort of means is that you like they'll kind of like it's almost like a game of chicken Where you will experience more negative emotion in the relationship? Before they do and then eventually you'll it'll be too much for you and then you'll cave right? They're sitting there crying. You feel like such an asshole. So then eventually you're like I'm sorry fine And then like you do something like you get flowers or like you make them a nice meal or you apologize or you tell them That you love them and then what you have to do Is take these negative emotions and you gotta bottle them up They get to keep crying but you don't get to keep crying right or in a situation of like anger, right? If you're with someone who's like emotionally manipulative and is like angry at you You don't get to feel angry with them, right? You just have to take it and you have to say yeah You're right Or you have to cave and be nice to them or something like that Like there's something that happens where you end up having to take this crap and you have to manage it You have to change behavior. You have to appease them in some way and then you feel terrible about it So what do we do about this situation? Okay, so a couple of things to understand the first Is what we need to do to fix the situation fundamentally? Is we've got to stop this like transfer of emotion from them to you. You need to be able to equalize Responsibility of fixing the problem in the relationship. Okay, so how are we going to do that? So the first thing that we're going to do is vocalize our own emotions And then instead of us fixing the problem We are going to try to encourage them to fix it with us and i'll give you all an example of what that means Let's say that I get into an argument and then my partner just starts crying, right? And then I feel guilty and they're like, oh, I can't believe you don't understand me And then like they're not like proactive about trying to fix it. You all get that they're just Expressing a lot of emotion and kind of transferring it to you and it's sort of your responsibility to figure out how to make this better That's what's so frustrating about emotional manipulation So instead of what we're going to do is we're going to say hey, I can see that you're upset I'm feeling upset as well. I know this is important What do you think we can do to fix this? And this is where they're going to come back with all kinds of other crap that will be emotionally damaging because they don't want to accept responsibility Why do they need to accept responsibility because thus far in the relationship They've been feeling like crap and they just transfer that crap to you I'm going to ship you all of my emotional crap and then you're going to pay off that debt I haven't needed to fix it so far and that also is sort of not their fault because they probably grew up In a situation where that is exactly what happened to them So that's the rules of the game is they learn them they haven't learned how to do like shared decision making or shared problem solving So instead of what you're going to say is you're going to say hey, I can see that you're really upset I'm feeling really upset too. You vocalize your emotions And then you can say what do you think we can do to sort of move forward from here? So what you're going to kind of do is dump it in their lap You say what can we do and this is where what you're going to see is an emotional escalation It's not their problem. It's your problem. So they're going to say I can't believe you don't understand me I've tried to explain if you don't know this is one of my favorites if you don't know what's wrong I don't know how to explain it to you Right, they'll use phrases like that which is like that's so frustrating because like you know And so they're going to say things like that And then what you're going to do is you're going to repeat back to me. You don't want to get emotional you want to say I'm hearing you say That you know You expect me to understand what is going on in your head and in your mind and you expect me to know these things I'm sorry. I don't Are you able to communicate that to me? And if they say I they're not going to be able to answer that question they're going to dodge so be prepared for the emotional Manipulation they're going to say look Oh if you don't know what's wrong, I don't know how to say it and then it's like what you're going to do is just Pause for a second. Okay, so this is something that's internal. You don't even have to say it notice that hey They're expecting you to know what's going on with them But they're the ones who are living it and they can't even articulate it So why on earth are they expecting you to know what's going on with them? If they're the ones that have a hundred percent info and they can't articulate it So then what you're going to do is you're going to say hey until you're able to articulate this. I'm sorry I'm not telepathic I think in order to fix this problem I'm going to need your help if you're not able to articulate what's wrong I think I need to take a step back from this If at some point you're willing to have a conversation about it, please let me know and then we're going to step back Then they're going to start crying over and over and over again And that's when like even if they cry if you leave the room, right what's going to happen? They're going to start crying louder This asshole he's leaving the room and i'm crying i'ma show him i'm gonna start crying i'm gonna start There'll be an emotional escalation, right? And so that's where you can say hey, I can see that you're getting more and more upset I don't know how to engage with you Unless you're able to articulate what the problems are. I'm sorry. You're feeling upset. I'm feeling really frustrated as well When you've calmed down if you're able to engage, I really hope you're able to But the key thing that must happen must must must must must happen is they must take responsibility For some of their own emotions and the problem solving in the relationship The key thing for you to understand is that they are going to make you feel guilty And what we're going to do is we're going to take that guilt that we feel and we're going to pass half of it back to them We're not going to say all kinds of negative things to them. That doesn't really work Well, right we're not going to say you don't love me and you did this and you did this we're not going to do that We're going to say hey, I need your help To fix this problem Are you going to be my partner in this? That's the general approach and they can emotionally escalate as much as they want to and then what you are going to say You're going to articulate this to them and articulate this to yourself. I cannot fix this relationship by myself There's no way you've been trying right? You've been trying to manage their emotions and your own but if this is a relationship they've got to be participants And so as you tell yourself that just say hey like this is what it's going to take to fix the relationship I'm going to need their help You can articulate some of that to them, but you don't have to share all that But that's how you manage your own emotions. Then you just notice this pattern Recognize that a lot of what you're feeling is actually being offloaded by them and is not yours to fix Because the other thing that happens Is that when these situations arise? You're left guessing how to fix it. They don't even articulate what they want you to do so you're just like left feeling guilty and then you're like trying to like You know play darts with a blindfold and you're trying to hit the bullseye and like you don't even know what they want Right. And so then you're jumping through a thousand hoops. Whereas if they took some responsibility to tell you Hey, here's what I need to feel better Then it would be like so much less effort for you But you're left like spinning your wheels and and blind and stuff like that. You don't know how to fix it But you keep trying and you keep trying you keep trying because you feel guilty you feel guilty you feel guilty And then what ends up happening is oftentimes we'll get so frustrated that we just have to break up with them or something like that And then that creates a whole other thing where they like start to you know, escalate even further and because anytime they feel negative emotion What are they going to do? They're going to use that emotional umbilical cord to dump it back on you Just recognize all of this stuff that's going on And if you want to engage in a relationship with this person, which I know that the internet will say oh this person is emotional Break up with them The truth of the matter is that like half the human beings on the planet are in relationships with people who are like emotionally manipulative in some way Right. I don't even have statistics about that. That's just my gut. Okay The key thing though is that like a lot of times we don't want to break up with this person Because this person isn't like a bad human being they just don't know how to articulate their emotions They don't know how to accept responsibility for their emotions. They don't know how to be a partner in a relationship So what we actually need to do is if you want to try to maintain some kind of relationship with them is Use this technique, right? First of all recognize the emotional transfer and then acknowledge their emotions And then what we're going to do is instead of like us being omniscient. We're going to admit our failures and we're going to ask for a help Hey, I need your help To figure out like how to move forward from here. How are we going to fix this? So you want to use like first person plural language If they they're going to come back with all this kind of crap and they're going to say oh if you don't know Then I don't know how to tell you and you can say yeah, that's really hard for me when i'm in a relationship You just want to state what's happening? I'm in a relationship with someone who is not able to articulate what they think is wrong. I don't know how to fix that relationship period I can't fix relationships in which my partner can't articulate what's wrong Period And then they'll start crying a lot and then you can say like, okay I can see that I'm telling you I need help and i'm not getting the help. I'm not getting any communication I'm going to step away from this situation and then what you need to do is like step away from a sensory standpoint You can say hey, i'm going to like step outside I love you very much. I just can't function in this kind of situation If at some point you're able to participate in a conversation Great. I'm more than happy to have it I don't see that that's I can't fix this without you Love you and then you peace out Right, you step away. So if y'all are listening to this you may start to think well I don't think this would actually work with the relationship that i'm in The emotional manipulation is so strong that these this kind of limit setting may not be successful And so what we're going to do is give you all an easier option that moves things in the right direction So the core of the problem right now is that when your partner or the person you're in the relationship with Parent child whatever friend when they start to feel negative emotions They displace those emotions on you your negative emotions pile up and then you end up giving in in some way That's why we use the phrase emotional manipulation because they're changing your behavior But it feels like you're kind of being pushed into a corner in these these emotions like guilt or maybe they're crying or they're sad Or whatever they're they're engaging in certain ways where they're like forcing your behavior And so this is the other really tricky thing is that a lot of times what we may sort of think is okay If they're forcing you into a behavior, just don't do it, right use willpower and resist just resist set limits set boundaries But the whole point is that we can't do that If we were able to resist our emotions, then we wouldn't be in this situation in the first place So instead what we're going to do is teach all a slightly different technique to change the dynamic of the relationship So the core of the problem here is that you're engaging in behaviors in the relationship without kind of getting credit for it, right? And if you really think about it, they're not really asking you what they want They start crying and then you feel guilty and then you're left playing this kind of guessing game to try to fulfill their wants And even when you do something positive in the relationship, it doesn't feel like a win, right? It still feels like a loss Even if you do something to help them stop crying or demonstrate your love or provide emotional support You feel like you were kind of forced into it instead of them like asking you for something and you kind of like doing your fair share So the tricky thing about this is that even when you do that kind of stuff, it's reinforcing the behavior of emotional manipulation Because now when they express emotions and then make you feel guilty and then you do the quote-unquote right thing What are you actually reinforcing in the relationship? You're reinforcing them to emotionally manipulate you more because this is how they get their needs met And this is what's so infuriating for so many people Is they don't realize like how do I get in this situation? Why does this keep happening? It's because you're reinforcing the behavior because if emotionally manipulating you gets you to do what they want They're going to keep doing it So instead what we need to do is if you can't set a boundary or resist Then what we need to do is change the way that they get their needs met and what we're going to focus on is having them Articulate what they want? So the key thing is it's not that you don't have to do it or you need to break up with them Or any of that stuff, you know If you want to do that, that's your choice But a lot of people want to try to make these relationships work And if you want to do that and the key thing is instead of reinforcing their emotional manipulation Reinforce their articulation. So this is where as they start crying, for example, you don't want to give into the crying But you can say hey, I see that you're really hurt. Can you help me understand? What you need in this moment to help you feel better Can you please let me know what you think i've done wrong or you know, what can I do? It hurts me so much So own that emotion to see you cry. I'm really worried about you. Please. Let me know what I can do to help So there's something really tricky there. You're not really giving in per se But you're also not saying hey like i'm not gonna i'm not gonna help you like this is your emotions and you need to handle it So you want to be emotionally supportive? But this is the key thing you're not going to do anything until they ask for it Because what really weighs on people what really burns people out in emotional Emotionally manipulative relationships is that they're left guessing all the time The other person doesn't even ask you to do anything. They just sort of force you into doing stuff And so instead of what we want to do is you say hey Can you please let me know what I can do to help you feel better? And then if they articulate it you can provide it right presuming It's an appropriate kind of response and that's really important because what we want to do is shift their behavior We want to sort of encourage them to actually articulate what they want and then we can do it for them The more that you're able to do that. It's going to change the dynamic of your relationship So now instead instead of hopefully emotionally manipulating you as you do this more and more they're able to actually articulate Hey what you did the other day made me feel neglected and hurt And I really feel like you should have spent more time with me. I think you should have done this I think you should have done this and then that's when you can say, okay Thank you for letting me know how you feel and now instead of making you feel guilty They're communicating with you that still may make you feel guilty and they may ask you to do things That are a little bit unreasonable, but it's a step in the right direction So if you're not able to like kind of take a step back and walk away from the conversation if your emotions get the better Of you, this is a technique that can actually work a little bit better So the tricky thing about being in a relationship with an emotionally manipulative person and this is the the key problem is that They will like evoke emotions in you and then you were left managing those emotions and trying to fix the problem Even if you try to criticize them Or you like sort of ask for their help or you point out to them things that they're doing wrong. They will somehow activate their emotional circuitry Turn on your emotional circuitry and make their faults your problem to fix And this is an unsustainable relationship and it's incredibly frustrating But the problem is that we have this vulnerability right because they've learned some really interesting technique, which is this like emotional offloading So the more negative emotion they experience they start offloading it to you Which means that their boat isn't sinking that they're taking on some water But what they're doing is they're taking all the water that their boat is taking on they're transferring it to you So you start to sink faster than they sink So it's like a game of chicken where you have to cave and you ultimately have to fix this problem And then the problem is that even when you start to cave and you fix the problem, what have you actually reinforced? You've reinforced that when there's a problem in our relationship The right way to fix it is to make you feel emotionally worse Right because if that person can make you feel emotionally bad and worse and worse and worse and worse Until you they reach that threshold then you'll fix it So this is sort of like, you know, it's kind of like a roommate who like i'm not going to do the dishes And you get pissed off about the dishes more than I do So I never have to do the dishes all I have to do is Wait until you get so pissed off about the dishes that you'll do them on your own and so this is the frustrating thing about being in a relationship with an emotionally manipulative person is that you're in a relationship but You're the one who's kind of like doing all the work, right? It's not like a real relationship where it's a partnership with shared problem solving It's something where no matter like if you have a problem They're going to emotionally let you know and if they have a problem you try to tell them they're going to flip it back around on you So literally what you need to do is recognize this transfer of energy Invite them to participate and also be able to step away and kind of absolve yourself of their part of it You can't accept 100 responsibility for fixing the relationship, which is absolutely what happens You have to accept at most 50% And put the other 50% on them and if they want to cry about it, that's their choice You can't make a relationship work for two people