 Despite you knowing so much and reading so much and learning so much and knowing this guy so well, everything you've said hasn't helped. Stop saying, start asking. I agree with that. I agree with that fully. A hundred thousand percent. I think people imposing their own beliefs on what will improve someone's life, as I alluded to earlier, is just overall a negative thing rather than understanding and then understanding for themselves. So it's not about what you're saying is right or wrong. So here's the crazy thing. Every single thing that you've told him is going to help. Right? It potentially could have applied, but who knows, right? Ah, no. So potentially could if applied. So I'm going to say my statement again. You tell me if you agree or disagree. Everything you told him is going to help if applied. So everything you told him is going to help. Why isn't it being applied? Because he doesn't want to. OK. How do we get him to change his mind? He probably has to find out for himself. How do we help him find out for himself? Asking questions. There we go. And look at what we just did with you. What did we do with me? Did you pay attention? You changed his... You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions. Yes. You asked me questions.