 How do I stay motivated for a new job after years of failure and not caring? It feels like my floundering and desperation has led me to a point where I cannot afford to fail again. I'm dirt poor. I have some addictions I should kick and my loved ones worry about me. The last three years of my life has included repeated collegiate flunkage, various firings from crappy jobs and a whole plethora of bullshittery on my end. Months of unemployment forced me to begrudgingly apply myself. I scored a job with a company that will pay me more than I've ever made in the past with an opportunity for promotion and epic cashflow. A part of me is excited and relieved for this new opportunity. However, another side of me is saying, oh crap, oh God, what if I screw up again? It feels like this job is a precious baby otter and I'm just a goblin with a, with credit card debt. But my biggest fear is that my inner goblin will decide to stop caring about this otter and I will once again exterminate my chance for success. So my question today is how do I channel excitement for potential success into a long-term hardworking attitude? I know that this problem I have won't be cured by an easy solution, but honestly, just writing it out feels good. Has anyone out there experienced this feeling? If so, what did you do about it? Any and all advice and comments would be greatly appreciated. I know what colorful pros my thoughts exactly. Someone's a gifted author. Okay. So this is a job post about someone who, you know, has not been doing great in life, flunked out of college, maybe got addicted. People are worried about them, um, you know, not doing great and then sort of applied themselves and ended up getting a job with the option of epic cashflow. Right? So now they're excited and they're afraid that they're going to screw it up. And their question is how do I keep, how do I channel my excitement and to like long-term motivation and drive? And the short answer is you don't. So long-term motivation and drive does not come from excitement. So this is something that's very important to understand. Long-term motivation and drive doesn't come from excitement. It comes from doing away with all of the negative stuff. So I want you guys to think about it this way. So imagine that you're starting a fire and so you have some lighter fluid on there, right? Which is like the, you know, that's the excitement. So excitement is by definition going to wane over time because it's emotions. We can't stay perpetually excited. This is the major trap that a lot of people fall into is when they get a spark of excitement, they work really hard, they feel excited. And then like something happens and their old pattern set in, and then their excitement wanes over time, and then they end up, things end up falling apart. Right? So we see the cycle over and over again, a burst of motivation and excitement followed by some progress followed by back to square one. So how does that happen? People think that what I need to do is continue the excitement. And it sort of makes sense because excitement is what got you out of the rut. So you think, okay, like how do I increase my excitement? How do I maintain it? How do I advance? Whereas what I'd say is that, you know, excitement is like lighter fluid. So imagine you're starting, you know, you're trying to start a fire and you play some logs or you put some lighter fluid and you kind of light it. But then the issues, what the reason that your fire goes out is not because of an absence of lighter fluid, it's because there's like rain and there's like wind. And then you've got this tiny little fire and you don't know how to keep it going. Or you can keep it going for a few seconds or a few minutes, but it's really the negative aspects of your life weighing down on you that ultimately destroy your long-term motivation. So if we look at this person's post, we can even see it in their language, right? So let's just kind of take a look at it. It feels like my floundering in desperation. I cannot afford to fail. Dirt poor, some addictions, various firings, plethora of bullshittery, begrudgingly apply myself. Yuck. Right. And I feel like I'm just going to screw it up again. Like failure is inevitable. I'm afraid. I'm afraid I'm going to screw it up because I've screwed it up so many times in the past. So if you want real motivation, what you really have to do is nurture that, that fire, right? Like you have to protect it from the negative stuff. So motivation, each and every human being is actually naturally motivated. If you look at it, like, you know, I know it sounds kind of weird, but it's not that we have to find motivation. It's that like, what's learned is actually a lack of motivation. Being unmotivated is the modification. The default is actually to be motivated. And if you don't believe that all you have to do is look at a child. Every child is motivated to walk. Every child is motivated to learn how to pick up a ball. Every child is motivated to like interact with other children. Right. As children, we see the most natural state of the human, which is to like strive to like grow and learn and do things. Like you can't get kids to sit still. They get bored easily. They want excitement. They want to explore. They want to go do things. So the most natural element of a human being is actually to be motivated towards something. So what gets in the way? It's all the negative crap that kills the motivation. So long-term sustained motivation does not come from increasing your excitement because excitement can absolutely get us out of the rut. Long-term motivation actually comes with processing the negative things that hold us back. Because what this person needs is not fuel for the fire. What they need is freedom from like the negative emotions. They need freedom from the doubt and freedom from the fear and freedom from the idea that inevitably I will screw this up as I have before. Because what's going to happen in this person's mind is very similar to our last case, which is when some natural thing happens that causes a negative impact in their performance, all of these negative thoughts will be like, oh, see, you're screwing it up again. You're screwing it up again. You're screwing it up again. There it goes. You knew you couldn't do it. You got up at Ian. You tried and see what happened. You're doomed to failure when the truth is that there's going to be fluctuations in your job no matter what. So let's say they've got an opportunity for promotion and someone there happens to be better at the job than they are. And then that person gets promoted. And so even though next round that this person may still get promoted, like you just lost this one, you can apply next year or next six months or whatever, you'll get promoted that time. But in those natural fluctuations, as your negative emotions start to leverage themselves in that space, then your motivation is going to go to crap. So the truth is that if people are asking, you know, how do I maintain my excitement for the sake of like long term motivation, long term motivation does not come from maintaining excitement. Excitement can help you out of the rut, but what you really need to work on is why do you assume that the default position is going to be failure? Right. And there's good reasons to assume it. I'm not saying you shouldn't assume that that's the case, because, you know, you're a smart person and you've learned that I tend to screw things up. But by taking that that possibility seriously, by looking at it seriously, by understanding, hey, like I've screwed things up in the past and these are my vulnerabilities by respecting those vulnerabilities, by taking them seriously, by taking the fact that you do screw things up pretty seriously and working on it very authentically, you can actually overcome them. Because even though you have screwed things up does not mean that you will continue to screw things up. Past performance is not a guarantor of future gains, right? This is a very important thing from like people who trade stocks. Just because a stock has done well for the last hundred days doesn't mean it will continue to do well for the future hundred days. Just because your life has led to certain conclusions, which may be fair, does not mean that those conclusions need to form your destiny. So the destiny is still in your hands. You need to just take your problems very seriously. You need to recognize that you have an awesome opportunity to do something and recognize that you have an awesome opportunity for epic cash flow. Is there a likelihood that you'll screw it up? Absolutely. And it's by respecting the possibility that you will screw it up that you actually give yourself the best chance of success. So I'm going to share with you guys a quick learning from TI. So I've worked with several e-sports teams and there are some teams that, you know, if you really want the best chance to win a game, you have to the best way chance to win a game is to accurately assess what your chances of winning the game are. So there are some teams that will be better than their opponents and they'll think things like, oh, these people are crap. We got that. We got this, right? These people are trash. They play trash Dota and we're going to, we're going to stomp them. And when you enter the game with that attitude, there's a decent chance you have a greater chance of losing. The right attitude to have is like, Hey, we are better than these people, but this is the international and like, you know, anyone they're going to be playing their best and they're going to try to take games off of us. Right. Any, even though if you're favored in a match, you still have to respect your opponent, don't over-respect them, but respect them enough. I've seen the flip side of this too, where sometimes teams are intimidated by their opponent and like they're not favored, right? So let's say you've got a 20% chance of winning this game. And so what these teams will do is we'll psych themselves up. They'll be like, Oh, these guys aren't that great. Like, even though back your mind, you know that they're probably better than you are. But people don't want to, they don't want to say that, right? Cause they're afraid. I don't know what's going on with this color, by the way. But they don't want to say that. So what they do is they psych themselves up and they're like, Oh, these people aren't that good, like we're better than they are, like, you know, we can beat these noobs, like they're not that great. They're like, not that great. Oh, we can do this. And then what happens is when you enter the game and like, you have an 80% chance of losing, like you start to lose and then that false confidence comes crumbling down. So one of the key things I learned from TI is having authentic doubt is better than having false confidence. So if you really want to win that game against an opponent who's better than you are, you have to go in understanding that you're not favored to win. The attitude that you want is that, you know, I may not win, but I have a chance. So like, even though I'm not favored, like there is a way that I can win this game and I just need to look for it. These people are not perfect. Are they better than I am? Sure. But they're not going to, there are chances of winning or not a hundred percent. I can win this game. Even if they're better than, than I am, I just need to look for them to screw up. They're going to be playing with overconfidence and I'm going to punish them for it. So to be very authentic about your situation, have you failed in the past? Yes. Should you be careful about failing in the future? Absolutely. Respect your opponent, take it seriously. And by doing so, you'll actually have the best chance of doing really well and actually coming out on top. So if you want to hit that epic cashflow, you can't underestimate your chances and you can't overestimate your chances. Take your problems seriously, respect them and understand that if you respect your problems, they can actually be worked on and they're not invincible. You can overcome the things that have held you back. Right? Your, your past does not dictate your future. You are in control of this. You just need to take it seriously.