 We still have some coaching spots left open, so Healthy Gamer can help people understand themselves. Our program is aimed at helping people with common mental health issues such as isolation, social anxiety, low confidence, internet or video game addiction, and more. Book a coach today with a peer coach trained by me personally, so I train all of our coaches. And click the first link in the description to see stats from our coaching program and what coaching can do for you. What do you go by, by the way? How do I? You call me Jody. Jody, okay. Mm-hmm. I'm Alok, but a lot of people prefer to call me Dr. K. You can call me whatever you would like. Okay. And so tell me, Jody, thank you very much for coming on. Thank you for having me. I see you are very vibrant still and colorful. Okay, I used to not be. I literally got my hair dyed not even two days ago. Yeah, looks great. Thank you. What prompted getting the hair dyed? Um, my, I always hear my mom say like, oh my God, like I wish I could have pink hair, blue hair, but I'm too old. And a lot of my friends have colored hair. And I was like, I'm just, I'm just going to do it. I used to be really attached to my hair. So it's kind of empowering to just be like, yeah, I'm going to bleach the entirety of my head and make it pink. What's empowering about that? Help me understand that. I think a lot of my life has been caring about the perception of myself to others. And while I do care, I don't want that to hold me back from expressing myself. And so this was like very different than I think even my last year self would expect from me. What was your last year of self would have expected from you? I think my last year self and all the years prior, especially with streaming, has cared a lot about how my first impression is. Like when people make that first judgment of you or even see you on a thumbnail while they're scrolling Twitch. Like I wanted to be perceived in a certain way. I see. In order to. Yeah. How did that change? Oh, I got so sick and tired of it. I was just like, oh, like I'm not myself. I don't feel like I feel like I'm constantly trying to appeal to something that is not what I want. Yeah. So it was kind of more just like like rebellious kind of thing. Oh, wow. Okay. So it sounds like you've discovered yourself. Well, maybe maybe we're like halfway there. Okay. So cool. That's sorry for diving right in. I don't know. Is there something? I don't mind at all. Is there I was just curious about, you know, the appearance because it happened two days ago and it seems like it's like significant for you that you did this thing. Definitely is. I feel I feel really happy though, like I'm giddy about it. So. Yeah. So you're you're like expressing yourself. Is there something in particular that you want to talk about today or anything that maybe I could help you with? When I was asked that question, we had listed off the feeling just of being a girl as a streamer and how you kind of pushing against the grain and then how intrusive thoughts make me feel kind of like inherently terrible. They have a way of doing that. Mm hmm. And I think I struggle with. Trust slash friendships. Okay. And that would be all that I can think of right now. That's plenty. Me thinks Jody. What do you want to start with? So we've got intrusive thoughts being a female on Twitch. And. Trusts and friendships. What feels? Any of them feel equally as okay. Yeah. So let me just maybe I can just ask you a little bit about yourself and kind of lay like a foundation for like maybe 10 or 15 minutes and then we can kind of see where that takes us. Sure. I suddenly find myself feeling like really excited to like dig into this stuff with you and I hope we can really learn something together and I'm optimistic that we can. It's weird. I'm unusual. Maybe it's just because you're so energetic. I'm like. Oh, I'm like nervous. I have so much. I feel like I'm jittery. I thought you were excited. I mean, I'm excited. I am but I'm also extremely nervous and I think I'm trying to cope with that nervousness by being extra bubbly. Oh, no. I wonder if now I will feel anxious and bubbly. Okay, no, no, no. I'm excited. I'm I'm just as equally excited. Okay, let's let's ask you. So can you tell me a little bit about what growing up was like for you? Oh, um. Growing up. I think I was a really happy kid. Like I look back on my childhood with fondness. I've there was also some traumatic experiences and such but everyone who it doesn't go through that and then I mean my family is really supportive. My parents are super supportive of what I do. I mean my hair is pink and they still love me and it's great and they're like, oh my God, I love it. And I've games my whole life. My parents game actually like I remember like waking up in the middle of night and hearing them play Halo on like legendary campaign till 2 a.m. So they're like very understanding and with the times I would say. Wow, interesting. So, yeah, you know ballpark answers are fine. How old are your parents? I'm. Oh, yeah. Yeah. My dad is fifty seven and I want to say my mom is forty six. So how did they learn how to use a controller? I have no idea. It's very unusual. My I'm sure that my brother influenced my parents gaming. So my brother was super into gaming as well growing up more so even than me and then I'm sure that through my brother's interest in gaming that my parents were like, oh, well now we have this console. Let's give it a try. So that would have been around the time it would be like. Yeah, around someone twenty-seven years ago because I'm 23. So, okay. Took the next question out of my mouth and how old is your brother? It sounds like he's older. Yeah, he's 20. 26. Okay, I should know that I should definitely know that no, no, we're ballparking. You do know that right? We're just ballparking for privacy. Yeah, of course. And you have one brother. Yeah. Any other siblings? No, just one other brother. Can you tell me a little bit about him? He is opposite of me. Okay. In many ways, I think that... I don't know what that means though, because I don't know you or him. Right. He is... A lot of the things that I saw growing up that I didn't like was actually in my brother. And so I tried to go the opposite way. He... I don't consider him a very... Considerate individual. I think he's very in his head about himself and has a hard time maybe seeing outside of his situation. And so that has definitely affected my life. Because obviously I grew up with him and he didn't move out to... I moved out really. So yeah, I spent a lot of time with him, shared a bathroom with him and such. He's... But he's very like... I don't really have anything good to say. Well, it sounds like he's one of us. Yeah. And I say that with love. Well, yeah. So I mean, I think a lot of times, siblings can dislike things about their other siblings. And it takes some time to really get to know your sibling in a way that is... It's like a process. It's like a relationship that develops over time. And I wouldn't be surprised if you guys felt quite different about it. And I wouldn't be surprised if you guys felt quite differently, you know, five years from now, ten years from now. But I'm almost hearing that maybe there were times when you were growing up that like... Maybe you could have really used his support a little bit, but maybe he was a little bit caught up in himself and... Maybe wasn't quite as available to you. I think that... Of course, we have the same parents. So I think that a lot of the things that we felt or were going through as a result of having the same parents... We could have talked about. And I feel like could have definitely relied on each other. But... Yeah, I'm not sure. We just have never connected and have always had issues. Or not. Or like just not gotten along, I would say. What does that look like? Well, when I used to live with him and my parents, it was a lot of like... Fighting in a sense where I'm like, hi, can you do this? And he'd be like, no. Like that. Why would I do that? And I'd be like, well, because like this bothers me. He's like, yeah. And I'm like, okay. So that's like really frustrating. So that was a lot of like just fighting. And then it came to a point where I stopped caring. I was like, okay. Yeah, we're just never going to have that relationship. And you're just so drastically different from me. And then... Yeah. And then I moved out and we don't talk. Like he'll text me sometimes. I'll like say happy birthday. We don't really talk past that. How do you feel about that? I have a lot of resentment towards him. Not because of me. Like, I don't really care how he's affected me because he did. I don't feel like he's a really like thing on my life, but I'm like upset with how he affects my parents. Because yeah, he's just I think like kind of a withdrawal sometimes. But yeah. So Jodie, I'm just noticing like I don't want this to turn into a, you know, brother bashing session. And it crosses my mind that this is public. So I wouldn't want us to talk about anything that would reflect poorly on him or make him feel embarrassed or called out or anything like that. We may have already crossed that bridge. But the reason I'm asking, I just want to because I think we've got kind of an interesting fork in the road here where this feels important to me. It feels like it's actually like a significant part of your life. Like I know you've learned how to live with it and sort of like wall it off. And it's like, you know, we text each other on birthdays. You know, it's like that Steam friend that you've got on your Steam friends list that like you used to play games with a few years ago. And then they change their names a couple of times and they change their icon a couple of times. You don't even know who they are anymore. You don't know what games you guys used to play. It's just a perfect description. It's just like it's just on your friends list. Right. You're like, I don't even know who that person is. But like, I don't know. Well, continuing, I will say like I love my brother and I see the good things in him. It's just that I can understand how great my brother is if I wasn't his sibling. I think because I am his sibling, I get to see a different side of him and I understand just a little bit more. So like I for anyone listening, I do love my brother. My brother is a great guy. It's just that I get to see totally just a different side of him that I think everybody has. It's just that, yeah, my brother. Yeah. So I think that's where like, you know, if you want to talk about it, I think it's still useful to do so. I think we should just understand that the point of exploring these things is to really try to improve on them. And I'm sure that, you know, when it comes to brothers and sisters that, you know, text each other occasionally, I'm sure you had your fair share in contributing to that relationship. You know, I mean, it's not like a one way. Well, sometimes it is. But, you know, usually it's like it goes both ways. So, you know, I do find myself curious, but I also want to kind of acknowledge that it could make him look bad and make sure that you're kind of comfortable with me continuing to ask questions. Like, I'm really curious when you said I kind of you have some resentment built up for some of his relationship with your parents. So I'm curious about that. Yeah. I like my parents are, I think, fine with my brother. I just see what my brother does. And I'm like, you could definitely. Sorry, my cat is eating my mouth. You could definitely. Yeah, just be a little bit more considerate and it would make their lives a little bit easier. Sure. It's just that he. What is the what is the what do you what do you ask him to do or what do you wish he did differently? So I haven't been home, so I don't know exactly what his behavior is like right now. But a lot of what I have seen in him and know that he does is just like doesn't really pick up after himself, doesn't really help out around the house and is, like I said, very like one track minded. And maybe he tunnels on like his own life, plays a lot of video games, but he works really long hours. So I can understand that he like went through a really bad breakup and moved back into my parents' house and like adopted a dog. But I guess didn't really take care of the dog too well. Like my parents did a lot of it. So, yeah. Sounds like he works really hard. Maybe had some stuff going on that wasn't too great, but also sounds like one of us. And since that he doesn't play, pick up after himself is kind of lost in games sometimes and is maybe a little bit infantilized by your mom and dad. Yes. So there's a really interesting diagnostic question about whether he's one of us or whether he's not. Does he do his own laundry? I want to say yes. There may be hope for him. You know, doing your own laundry is a big, big part of it. My cat is just absolutely destroying my room right now. I see that. Yes. Maybe your cat is jealous that we're talking about your brother. So can you tell me a little bit about your parents? Yeah. My mom is my rock. I love her to death. She is absolutely the woman that I aspire to be. She's just always had like given me that space to be vulnerable and talk about things and really given me the space to express myself in any way that I want. Like truly wishes for my happiness. And I feel that from her. My dad. My dad is an interesting man. He's rather angry. We actually, you know, when you finally like get to talk to your parents about all the things that you've like been meaning to you, like you, you know, you make your own paycheck so you don't like hold anything back. My dad and I just actually had that conversation maybe like two weeks ago, which was pretty big for me because I think that was weighing on me for a while. But he's a little angry and I definitely see some of him in me and I hate that because I didn't really like him growing up. And what part of what part of him do you see in yourself that you dislike? So I call them my sneezes, like behind closed doors. A lot of the times I'll like get angry at stuff and I can't hold it in because it's like what I grew up with. Like holding in angry emotions are not a thing that happened in my family with my dad. And so I see that in me and it's mine's definitely not as bad as my dad's. But because it's so similar in the sense where like get really angry, you can't whatever. And then I like sneeze and then it's gone. So I don't really like call those grudges. It's just that because I can get so angry and because I can't really control my emotions, it makes me feel really guilty, I guess is the word for it. OK. Can you give me an example? Something just happened. Oh, Andy Milonakis just gifted a shitload of subs to our channel. So thanks, Andy. Andy does that from time to time. I don't know. We love that. It just shows up and Bitcoin billionaires are asses. But let me just so let me ask you, can you tell us like paint us a little bit of a picture? Do any memories stand out? And once again, you know, we want to acknowledge for a moment that this is just an isolated memory. It sounds like you're for the most part, like you said, first and foremost, that you are actually a member of the Bitcoin community. And so it sounds like your parents did a wonderful job and they're like actually awesome parents, but no one's perfect. The reason I'm going to ask you a little bit about your dad is more because you see that part inside of you. So maybe we can understand a little bit about how to deal with that anger. Is it OK if I ask you to tell us a little bit about like memories from interactions that you had with your dad? OK. Right. As you said, memories like I so vividly have is in my mind. That's what we want. Yeah, it was around Christmas. I remember because we're sitting next to the Christmas tree and I don't exactly remember what happened or what led to this. I actually think it was a pretty big turning point in my life. But my dad, I ended up talking back and my dad end up calling me a bitch. And I remember being like, my dad just called me a bitch. Like, you can't do that. Like, you should just not do that. And I remember like screaming at him. And I was like, you have no idea how your words affect people. And I'm like 16 and you're calling me a bitch. And I'm like, how do you think this is going to make me feel like you think I'm going to forget this? And I remember specifically like. What? OK, sorry. Can you hear that? My cat is rumbling. I'm so sorry. Honey, please stop. I'm. Just I remember because it was the time that I had talked back like I had finally stood up for myself and he called me a bitch because of it. And so it was really scarring, but also like an awakening where I was like, no matter what I say, he's just not going to like that. I am talking back. I think. It's interesting because I think I'm getting a little bit more context of why changing your hair is so empowering. Because you kind of say that for a long time, you used to like be what people wanted you to be. And now you're being a little bit more of yourself. And what I'm hearing is that. You know, you were taught that being yourself is not OK. I definitely was taught to. Behave. And yeah, like I would definitely. I it's like I would just my it was like walking on around eggshells or whatever that saying is that I'm not familiar with, but walking on it. Walking on it. It was very much that like one thing could blow up an entire situation. So there's a lot of just kind of minding my own business, trying to lay low, not bring attention to myself kind of thing. And what kind of things would set your dad off? Not washing a dish. Saying something. Changing his iPad wallpaper, it could be anything. And what would he say if you changed his iPad wallpaper? This happened to my well, my brother changed his iPad wallpaper, but it was the end of the world. Don't touch my shit. And that's disrespectful. How would you like it if I touched your shit? Took all the clothes out of my brother's closet, throw over the banister. Just kind of ridiculous. Yeah, but I think he knows it's ridiculous. I like had the conversation with him. I'm like, you're you're ridiculous. You're a ridiculous man. And he was so I pretty much had the conversation with him that I was like, why do you need to like lash out at people when you're angry? And it actually we had a conversation about my brother because I think a lot of why my brother is the way that he is because of my dad, of course. And it was like you hurt people when you're angry. And I'm like, do you mean to do that? And he's like, yeah, how are any how is anybody going to know that I'm angry if I don't like say these words like hurtful, meaningful words? And I was like, how? I'm so sorry. Like for the environment that you must have grown up in where you feel like you had to lash out at people for them to even hear you, because that's just not normal. And I was telling my dad, I'm like, in any friendship that I have right now, if I was to be like, hey, stupid bitch, I hate when you do that. They're going to be like, OK, I'm not going to be friends with you, because why do I need that in my life? And he didn't really. I mean, we kind of got to a consensus and he was like, OK, like I get it. But I don't know if it really resonated with him. I think it was the only time in his life that anyone has ever talked to him about that or said anything along those lines. Wow, that takes. So, you know, I'm a little bit of a boomer. So sometimes I say things that could be interpreted as misogynistic. So I apologize, because I, you know, so let me know if I offend you. But, you know, that takes that's quite a pair of balls you have there. Why, thank you. They're rather large. You know, like I've tried to say ovaries, you know, to be like, you know, but it just doesn't it doesn't mean anything. And then like then you can always use the gender neutral term, which is that's quite a pair of gonads. I like that. That's definitely reminds me of middle school. Yeah, like it's a it's a middle school insult. Right. I don't I'm still trying to navigate this like, you know, woke culture of it's tough for me. So if I say something that's out of line, I apologize. But that's quite a pair of balls you have there. Yeah. I mean, seriously, like it's it's it's hard to stand up to your parents, especially when they get so angry and throw all your clothes over the banister. Well, I will. I shut my mouth for 23 years. I was definitely not saying anything, but I'm financially able to support myself and I don't think that he can emotionally damage me anymore. So I felt kind of just like, well, we ended up on the call. And why not? I've been meaning to have this talk with you for literally ever. So it was actually like really nice. So it sounds like he was actually pretty receptive to the conversation and kind of engaged with you. Yes, he had definitely a moment of. Anger. And not really. Yeah, he definitely just doesn't listen. It's funny. He's always waiting to talk like if you always hear. Yeah, he's always waiting to talk and I can tell because I'm like, you're just yelling back at me and it. Yeah. He's also just a man of logic. So a lot of my. Arguments and how I now carry forth of my arguments is through logic, and I kind of hate that because. Emotions are always in play. It's just that I know how to talk to my dad for him to listen to me. So I have to like do everything logically. I'm like, yeah, well, this is what you said three years ago. And if you don't really follow through with that, then that just doesn't logically make sense. And he's like, hmm. Well, that's interesting. Usually my experience with with people who are super into logic is that if their logic is incorrect, they get really, really angry. And then they just can't see that their logic is wrong. That usually he at least if you can out logic him, then then he'll finally make. Okay, I'll think about it. But. Yeah, so I'm also hearing that, you know, he sort of it sounds like you've sort of figured this out that like that was just the only way he knew how to make himself heard. So I didn't know that until like two weeks ago, I genuinely thought that he like knew what he was doing, because I'm like, how can you be not? How do you not have the awareness to know that you are totally messing up people being mean and like. But no, he like genuinely didn't understand. And I actually think that makes maybe more sense to me. Yeah, yeah. It sort of makes sense because he didn't really know what he was doing. But also, it also sounds like that's the way that he learned. That feelings are taken seriously when you are mean to someone. And that's how you express to someone that you are not okay with what they did. Yeah. The way that you demonstrate that you have been hurt is by hurting someone else. So that's that's I'm, I'm happy for you guys and I think it takes a lot of strength to have that conversation and it sounds like your dad is kind of willing to play ball, which is. We'll see. But yeah. Cool. And how did you get into streaming. Oh, I went to an event called Pax with my then ex boyfriend and there was like this huge purple booth and I was like, what's that? And he's like, oh, it's just like this live streaming platform. Like, oh, that's weird. And then I forgot about it. And then I'm Pax West or Pax East. Pax West. And then he actually built a computer and started streaming. And at the same time, I was like, well, I want to build a computer because I had always been a console gamer and like a laptop gamer. And then I ended up having some friends who helped me and I built like this really jank, like really just bad computer. But welcome to the PC Master Race, my friend. Yes. So I would watch his streams and I was like, this is really cool. Like, this is all I've ever wanted in the sense that I've always had moments in gaming where I'm like, oh, my God, I wish someone saw that. And that is exactly what this is. And so I started streaming and I was also extremely lonely at the time. I was in college and was studying as pre-med. And so I literally didn't make any friends. All I did was study. I like didn't have the luxury or the intelligence to study, work and have friends. I could really only have work and school and do those two things well. And then I worked when you were in college. I worked part time. And then, yeah, and then I just like loved streaming because I was so lonely. How did you decide to become pre-med? Interesting, actually, I was auto filled to business in college. My parents were like, you don't have to go to college. But if you like you just have to do something productive in the meantime, like you can't just sit at home and play games and do nothing. And I was like, OK, fine. Like, I do see myself pursuing something. I just don't know what it is quite yet. And went to college, auto filled business and halfway through business, I was like questioning. I don't really enjoy this. Like it doesn't like interest me in any way. But I was like, what is stopping me? Like, what do I want to do? And if nothing was in my way, what would I do? And I was like, I would love to be some sort of doctor. Like I would love to be a dermatologist. Like in a perfect world, I would be a dermatologist. Like I just grew up with skin issues, like completely understand them and hated how everybody treated me and how most dermatologists treated me. And I was like, yeah, I would totally love to do that. And then I realized that my whole life, I kind of told myself that I wasn't intelligent and I couldn't do that. And then I was like, oh, like, let's just let's just do that. Let's just at least try. So I switched to biology. Do you still tell yourself that you're not intelligent enough to do that? Not often, not often. I think that like through my degree and like going through that process, I know that I totally can. It's just that if I'm willing to drop everything else, I can. Like I said, I didn't make any friends from college. So at what expense did I was able to like get good grades and maybe be pre-med at the expense of not having friends? Sounds about right. Yeah. Getting good grades as a pre-med is impressive. That's not easy to do. It took a lot, like literally everything that I had in me to work towards that. You know, just my experience was that I got terrible grades and didn't have any friends anyway. So at least you got something out of it. Yeah, of course. I was both a loser and a failure. Sounds like you were just a loser. So yeah, so then it sounds like you started. So were you like lonely in college? Oh, my God. I was so lonely. I thankfully had a really great boss. I worked part time and my boss, I like developed such a great relationship with her name is Cheryl and I love her. Like she is the seven year old woman. She is just feisty. She's I just love her. And so I had her thankfully and I would consider her a friend. It's just that our age difference was really drastic. So we couldn't like go and do anything really other than grab dinner. And so what was it? Can you tell me what it was like to be lonely? I heavily relied on my boyfriend at the time. We had we dated for way too long, I think, because of that. So because I had met him like my like summer going into college. But yeah, we were with each other for the entirety of college, which makes sense. You know, like we were good for each other, I think, when we need while we needed each other kind of thing. But yeah, I was like didn't have friends to rely on. Like talk to my mom a lot and would vent to my boss, but didn't really have anybody my age to like like anybody, any girlfriends that I think are obviously really important. Do you have girlfriends now? I have girlfriends now. Yeah. How did that happen? Through streaming. All my friends are through streaming and like weird coincidences, I think. Like my best friend is actually from where I'm from. She was acquaintances with my ex. So we met through my ex, but then she ended up streaming and we ended up really bonding over that. And now we're roommates. Oh, cool. Yeah. And so what how did your what ended up happening with your ex boyfriend? You guys said it sounds like it was like what you guys needed at the time and then you kind of grew out of it or what happened? We. So he starts streaming before me, which created an interesting dynamic in our relationship because his stream didn't do so well. And mine did well enough to be full time. And that was really the decline of our relationship. I actually found a lot of self-worth through streaming and. It's not something you hear every day. And also just some empowerment. I've never really had anything that I felt good at. And I actually think that I feel pretty good at streaming. I'm not sure what about it or like I couldn't pinpoint it to you and tell you like what I'm doing right. I just feel confident doing so. I can tell you what you're doing right. Oh. I think we've never. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. I've never watched. Yeah, I was going to say we never see my stream. I haven't seen your stream. I don't need to see your stream. Oh, that's interesting. Yeah. I think you're very alive. Oh, I would. Yeah, I'm yes. Yeah, I think it's it's quite compelling. Well, thank you. I will. I cherish those words. Cherish away my friend. No, seriously, I think it's I can see I think you have some like a certain like charisma, right. There's like. Yeah, well, thank you. There's a lot of life in there. Yeah. My pink hair shows. But through streaming, I genuinely felt like I was good at something. And so that changed the dynamic in our relationship because he used to be the one that was like good at everything. More than me or I don't know. We were not good with each other, but we just happened to be with each other. I felt like. Yeah. So it sounds like maybe it was hard for him to watch you become more successful. Yeah. And you know, when your testicles started to outweigh his. He noticed. It's hard. Yeah. Yeah. It's challenging. My wife wears the pants in the relationship, too, so that can sometimes be hard for me. OK, so and then. So it sounds like so I'm a little bit curious. You had mentioned trust and friendships as important. Can you help me understand? So it sounds like you actually have a fair number of friends now. It sounds like, you know, things maybe just ran their course with your ex boyfriend. Are you seeing someone now? If you don't mind me asking, you don't have to answer that. I am seeing someone now. Yeah. So then so help me understand why trust or friendships is kind of like something that you wanted to talk about. So I would say that until recently, I have good friends and I would consider like my roommates really good friends. And then some of the people that I've met through streaming. It's just that my whole life. It's like I have horse stories with friends or just. People. And it makes me try to reflect and be like, well, why did all these things happen to me? And like, what am I doing so wrong? And it really scares me when approaching new friendships, because especially with people that I cherish, because I'm like, oh, when is it that they're going to realize like I'm this, that and this and then decide to leave me or like like, yeah. Does that have something to do with the intrusive thoughts? Yes. That sounds like an intrusive thought. Absolutely, yes. Yes, this sort of looks like an intrusive thought. The people are wondering, that's what an intrusive thought looks like. Out of all the thoughts that you've had that you've shared over the last 45 minutes, that is the intrusive. OK, all right. So tell me what happened with we can we can we can get to the bottom of this, I think. OK, so tell me. Go ahead. Oh, so do you want to say something else? No. OK, so tell me what happened with your friends like before this most recent batch. Drama. Drama. Literally, I can look back on the time of my life and I'm like, OK, yeah, yeah. Oh, we're finally good. And the good is now. Oh, yeah. Can you give us an example? Middle school, my elementary bully came to and switched my school. Good stuff. Wow. They just follow you everywhere. It's great. Yeah, that's not funny. Hmm. So just like my parents were part of this business, and I want to say that it was kind of like a kind of like a cult business probably. I'm not sure they didn't really tell me much about it, but pretty much when they switch businesses, when they're like, oh, yeah, this is kind of scummy. The other individuals that like, oh, how do I explain this? I went to school. It was a private school and the parents that all went to that all worked at the same place, obviously, like flock together and they all have kids. And so all the kids hung out. So like me and like, I think five other girls, four other girls, we would all hang out. And then as soon as my parents were like, oh, yeah, we're not going to be part of this business anymore. The parents like, oh, you can't hang out with Jody anymore because we're not hanging out with their parents anymore. But as a kid, I don't think I really understood that. I think I was like, I don't know, people don't hang out with me like that. And then, yeah, but they were also like the kids were really mean about it, specifically one girl. But she was just really, yeah, not nice to me. I would cry every day on the races. I would literally bury a hole in the wood chips and dig myself out of the stairs and cry. And I remember like calling my mom. So I was like third grade. You're smiling. Because it's comedic to me. I imagine my small self like. Bearing myself in wood chips because I don't emotionally know how to understand this. And I'm over it now. In the sense that I understand, like. I'm aware enough to know that it wasn't a me thing. It was definitely like a parent thing, but it still affects me emotionally. I just understand it a bit more like from bird's eye view. What do you understand? That it wasn't. A me thing like I didn't do anything to make these girls hate me. But they. Did after my parents or after their parents told me that we can't hang out with you anymore. OK. Can I think for a second? Mm hmm. What games do you play, Jodi? Right now, a lot of Valorant. OK. I love Minecraft. OK. Give me rest among us, but among us is OK. Um. I love just FPS games in general and puzzle games. So like Zelda. Favorite Zelda game. Twilight Princess. You know, it's sleeper sleeper head. Did you ever play Majora's Mask? I didn't like finish Majora's Mask, I think in its entirety. I ended up not liking it that much. But I was also young and have not given it another try. So it kind of scared me. It's kind of demonic. I mean, Twilight Princess also do be kind of a little dark, but less dark. Yeah, way more Happy Valley than or sorry. What's uncanny Valley? You familiar with this? Yeah, so it's way creepier. But OK. Thank you for sharing that. I know it's kind of a random question, but I'm trying to just figure out what kind of analogies do I need to come up with in my game. I need to come up with in my head. To help us understand. So we're going to have to go towards Zelda because I suck at FPS. And I've never really played Minecraft. Still don't really understand it, to be honest. It's OK. It's you won't understand until you dig like 10 hours into it. OK, so maybe I should do that at some point. OK, so let me ask you something. Have you ever so you it sounds like you understand that, you know, those kids were being mean and it wasn't really your fault. And when you think about that girl who buries herself in wood chips, have you done anything besides laugh? Like, have you cried about that? Yes. I definitely went through my emotional acceptance of it. Help me understand what that means. Like when I allow myself to feel really sad or like bad for myself, it will go back to that time. But it is not often. I oftentimes will just laugh at it. But you do let yourself is it when you're feeling bad now that your mind kind of returns to that time or do you let your mind go to that time and you feel bad in the present? This is so interesting. I was just talking on stream about how sometimes time to me feels very like sandwiched because my memories feels like I had lived them yesterday. Yep. So a lot of the times like let's say that something happens, I will remember that feeling. Like if something similar happens in my life, let's say related to friends or like I'm being wronged by a friend. So it sounds like the present triggers the past. You don't go and sit in the past. Yeah. Okay, cool. Yeah, we're going to talk. This is gonna be good. I think you're gonna figure this out. All right. It sounds like you're halfway there already, Jodi. Your understanding of time, I think, is quite sophisticated and a very important revelation. Okay. Now, let me ask you another question. So when you are living in the present and you travel back to the past, do intrusive thoughts part of that picture? Not in this. So when I am thinking of myself in the past, does my past self have those intrusive thoughts? No, no. So just ask me about the intrusive. Let me ask you about the intrusive thoughts. Can you tell me just a little bit about what you mean by intrusive thoughts? When I say intrusive thoughts, it's mostly like my interactions with others, how I affect others, how others perceive me and how that will... It relates back to... What they'll do to you because of how you're perceived? Yes. And how I feel like I've been either betrayed or wronged or just not liked throughout my life. And so I feel like there's something wrong with me, which creates these intrusive thoughts, but that I can't really pinpoint if I'm lying to myself or if others are lying to me. And it's just intrusive in the sense that I must be inherently bad. There must be something wrong with me that somebody just won't tell me. Yeah. And yeah. Okay. So tell me what kind of... Can you give me an example of intrusive thoughts? Like, let's say I'm streaming with someone or like I'm collaborating with another streamer and I say something that's like me being myself. I'll like have a sudden moment of like, should I have said that? Or because I'm showing a glimpse of myself, is this like the last time that we'll be collaborating together because I'm just bad? I'm terrible. Nobody likes me. Kind of thing. There's that laughter again. So funny. I deal with everything through humor. Also, especially with streaming, I like don't mind talking about my feelings and laughing about them because I want people to laugh with me. Like, I don't want people to be sad for me. So I laugh so that people mirror me because... Um, I because I don't know. I think especially with streaming, I want people to feel happy on my stream. I want you to click on a quarter jade stream and be like, yeah, this is like a positive, uplifting, happy place where we occasionally talk about sadness, but I don't leave feeling sad. So if I talk about things that happen to me or don't laugh at the things that happen to me, then you'll also feel bad. You'll be like, oh, okay. Does that also apply outside of streaming? Like, I can understand trying to create a particular kind of community or vibe on stream, but do you feel like people are you okay with people being sad, pitying you? Otherwise? See, I am. Yes, but I will not often put myself in those situations to be pitied. I guess you won't put those self. Does it feel uncomfortable to you when people feel sad for you or pity you? I've never thought about that. Let me think about that. Um, I don't think it makes me feel uncomfortable. I just don't want people to feel that way in our experience. Like when conversating, I guess. It is not my main goal. Sure. Or like, yeah. Let me ask you, do you do you protect other people from feeling that way? Yeah. Why? Where does that come from? From lack of protection, I think. That didn't take long. No. And what weren't you protected against? Uh, yeah. I think it's just. Mean and toxic experiences. Or people. Can you tell us about those? The experiences in particular or. Um. I remember like. Oh, there's a lot. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh my God. I was just talking about this on stream, which is funny. Um. The said girl who we are going to continue to go back to. Uh, she. We actually ended up becoming friends. I remember having this thought and I was like, oh God, we were so young. I'm sure I could be friends with her now. And we ended up like. Kind of getting along. We would hang out and I would like go to her house and she. Is very, she lives a very fortunate life. She had this beautiful pool and this beautiful house. And then. Uh, she ended up. Kind of merging with the popular crowd. And so I was no longer her friend after that. And, uh, I left my bathing suit at her house. And I was like, Hey, like I love my bathing suit at your house. Like, can I come get it? And she's like, Oh, like I don't have it. And then I was like, Oh shoot. Okay. Um, then this is when Instagram was rather new. And to. Society, but. Uh, her sister posted an Instagram photo of her wearing the bathing suit. I'm like. Yeah, that's definitely my bathing suit. Okay. And then I am a messenger. I'm like, Hey, like, can I come grab this? She's like, no, that's my sister's and I'm not even home. And then. Okay. This is my dad was probably. Wrong and allowing this to you. But my dad was like, yeah, let's just like go drive her to her house and then go get it. I'm like, yeah, okay. Hindsight. I don't think that's a good, you, I definitely should not have done that, but. Um, the winter house. Knocked on the door. The dad answered and he's like, Oh, hey, Jody. I'm like, Hey, I'm here to pick up my bathing suit. And he's like, Oh yeah, go on upstairs. And, um, she had another sister. So, uh, the other sister was like, Oh, like, what are you doing here? I was like, Hey, I'm here to grab a bathing suit. She's like, Oh, cool. It's like, so and so in her room, I grabbed it. I left, uh, her sister obviously told her that I was there and then it ended up being this huge thing. She's like, I cannot believe that you would trespass into my house and steal my bathing suit. I'm like, Okay, but it was definitely mine. But. I'm like, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. It has a like, that is like one of those moments where it's really toxic. And I know that she went and told a bunch of other people about it and said maybe things that weren't very true or from her point of view, might have been, uh, and that like had altered the way that people saw me and the friendships from there on out. That's fucked up. Retweet. Wow. Man, you just really get fucked every time you stand up for yourself, don't you? Yeah. What do you think about that? Okay. The first thought to me was like, well, why? And. Yep. Yeah. But I also think that's why I'm really protective of others. Like I'm, I'm like straight up mama bear for anybody that I care about. And a lot of people that you don't care about. That too. I think it's, yeah, you're very protective. I think it's quite an admirable quality and people, even though you sometimes get the short end of the stick, I think people benefit from having you in their lives for better or for worse. But why do you think, how do you understand that? Why do you get smacked down every time you, you know, pop, poke your head above ground? Um, I just. I don't really know if I have a direct. Like, I don't feel like that's happening to me. I guess. Like you say that. I'm like, oh yeah, that like makes sense. But when I do stand up for something, it's more because I couldn't not, I like can't go to bed at night if I didn't. It will eat away at me. Can I think for a second? So I'm going to just think out loud. I may need to pause in the middle here, but you know, it's kind of interesting because when we think about these sorts of stories, right? Where like you leave your bathing suit at a friend's house and she's like, Nope, that was mine. And then, you know, kind of, it sounds like sometimes you tried to express yourself maybe with your dad. And then that really didn't go well. It sounds like there are a lot of times where you've tried to, you know, show people who you are, be yourself and you've been punished for it. And generally speaking, you know, when we think about that, we think that the psychological consequences that you're like meek, right? Is that like when someone gets knocked down like a thousand times, like they're going to learn how to stay down and they'll be like, feel really bad about themselves and like have low self-esteem and things like that. I don't think you have low self-esteem. What do you think? Until streaming, I would say that I for sure had low self-esteem. Yep. And have since grown. I am. I have occasional low self-esteem. Sure. Of course, everyone does. But, but you know, you're not like a downtrodden. Like you seem to be confident. You seem to be vibrant. I would not describe myself as confident, but I am definitely describe yourself. Definitely like fake it till you make it confidence. I want to be perceived as confident and therefore I kind of like just act accordingly. But deep down, I don't feel confident and I don't feel confident in the words that I say. I've just like conditioned myself to be like, OK, well now speak. How do you feel about the words you say? Um, sometimes really good. I'm like happy that I am open. And then sometimes I'm like the whole reason why people don't like you is because you talk. So just stop talking. But then I'm like in a turmoil and I'm like, I have to be confident because I don't and I have to stand for this. But at the same time, yeah. Yeah, so I'm going to be a little bit judgmental here. I think you're confident. And I think confidence is so foreign to you that you don't know what it looks like. So let me try to parse this out a little bit. OK, so if there's a part of you that says deep down inside you, just hypothesize. OK, I could be wrong, but let's let's take a look at it and then you let me know whether I'm right or I'm wrong, because I don't know what's going on inside. So, you know, there's a part of you that's like, I want to speak. And then there's another part of you that's like, no, no, no, don't speak. That's stupid. When you speak, bad things happen. Is that fair? Is that the conflict? So that's really interesting because I don't detect any lack of confidence there. So I'll give you an example of what lack of confidence is. Don't speak because you're dumb. But I'm not hearing that from you. I'm hearing that you've learned that there are consequences to your actions, but not when I think about someone who's not confident intrinsically, they don't think that their words have merit. I'm not hearing that you don't think intrinsically that you lack merit. I think you just. You know. You've been traumatized. Yeah, actually, right? Because if you think about it, like, I'm sure you've had friends or you felt in the past like you intrinsically don't have merit, right? Like you're like, there's something wrong with me. But that inner conflict that I hear now is not like I feel like speaking. And then the other part of your voice is like, no, you shouldn't because that's dumb. You're dumb. Sit down and shut up. It's like people are going to get frustrated if you do that. And that, by the way, may be legitimate, right? So I think that, you know, you have a lot of bit the and if you don't know what that is, I'll explain it in a second. But in Ayurveda, Ayurveda is traditional Indian medicine. And bit the is so like they sort of diagnose personalities based on like elements. So you are like sort of like a fire type. And there's a really interesting sign of your bit though, which is the insides of the palms of your hands and the color of them. Right. So I know that you have a lot of I know that I'm assuming you're wearing makeup. I can't really tell. But and then I'm assuming that, you know, your hair is not normally this color. So like people with bit does a bit a high amount of bit that that's correlated with redness in their body. And so the palms of your hands, you know, are quite red. Right. So it's kind of interesting. So if you look at the palms of my hands, they're like whitish. Right. Yeah. So you've got a lot of color there. So and bit those also are kind of like angry, they're fiery, they're logical. They don't take things lying down. They stand up for themselves. So that's maybe just a conversation for a different day. But I think that like, yeah, I don't think that you lack confidence. I think I think you've just you're trying to figure out like why when you express yourself like people like you've learned that when you express yourself, like sometimes it doesn't go well and people like mistreat you, which I think sort of makes sense. I can sort of understand what you mean. Also, if you say you're not confident because it does sound like you have thoughts floating around in your head that there's something inherently wrong with you. That's a lack of confidence. Right. But I think that those thoughts and I guess I'm going to. So here's what I think, by the way, because I've started to do that. And so let me know, you know, if it I could be completely wrong. Let me know what resonates with you and what doesn't. But the way that I understand it is that, you know, Jody, you were like. So these so let's think about intrusive thoughts for a second. So intrusive thoughts are thoughts that are unwanted. Right. That's what we call them intrusive. And what they kind of do is they sort of like spawn in your mind. Like you're like going around about your day like, like, I'm going to eat a taco. And then like this thought spawns in your mind and it's like there's something inherently wrong with you. You're like, fuck. But where is that coming from? Like, I was just trying to eat a taco and there you go again, mind. Telling me that there's something inherently wrong with you. It's like, oh, like, hey, like, you want to hang out sometime and you're like, yeah, I want to hang out. You go hang out with your friend. Hey, do you want to move in together and your roommates like, hey, we should live together. That'd be totally awesome. You're like, yeah, that'd be totally awesome. You're like, that's it. And it's like, hey, there's something inherently wrong with you. You may fuck it up. Be careful. So what the fuck? But why is that happen? Like, no, no, like, she likes me. She wants me to move in with her. This is great. We're having fun. We've hung out a lot. Like, why are you doing this to me, mind? Where is this coming from? And so it's intrusive. Because much like yourself, it shows up at your house, invites itself in and takes your bathing suit. It just comes in and it's like. Here's the really scary thing, because it actually has a right to be there, just like you had a right to be there. Right? Because here's the thing about intrusive thoughts. So. Intrusive thoughts like get spawned, right? They're like spawning like there's like a portal somewhere in your subconscious that every now and then gets triggered and then like spawns a mob. And then you have to like fight against the intrusive thought. And sometimes you kill it and sometimes you don't. Sounds like you've gotten pretty good at dealing with it, but they keep coming back. And you're like confused because despite your confidence, you're still going to be there. Despite your confidence, despite your success, despite the fact that you have friendships, I'm assuming just based on what we haven't talked about or that it hasn't come up, that your relationship with your boyfriend is pretty good. Seems like a cool dude. You know, because like we've talked about anyway. So you want to have a lot of fun, we can talk about him. But, you know, so it seems like you actually do trust people. It sounds like you are standing up for yourself. Like if you have a dad who gets angry all the time and throws things like over the banister and you lack confidence, it's really hard at the age of 23, especially being a woman, to like stand up to a father figure and say like, hey, this is not OK. That doesn't compute for me that this person has low confidence. Right. Because like, you know, inside yourself. That like this is the right thing to do and like it needs to be said. I think the reason that you call yourself not confident is because you have the intrusive thoughts. But like what I want you to understand is that there's you and then there's like this machine over here that's like spawning this portal that's just spawning the intrusive thoughts. That's not really you because you're confident. It's just there's this like. Bit of malware running in the background that is like pop up bad pop up bad. Hey, people don't like you. Hey, be careful because they're going to steal your bathing suit. Hey, and you're like, how the fuck do I get this to stop? OK, does that make sense that resonate with you? OK, all right. So let's try to understand, like, where do these portals come from? Like, like. And so this is where in my experience, I like the system of like Eastern philosophy or like Eastern system of mind. So this is where. You know, you could go to see a therapist for something like this, absolutely. But I really like the Eastern conception of like what they say about this kind of stuff, which is basically that like there's that little girl. So like, I want you to think about what was going through your head when you would bury yourself in wood chips. Like, do you remember what kind of thoughts you had? It was specifically after the girls had said some not very nice things to me and they were like, yeah, we go away. And I remember I wanted to not be there, but it was recess. I had nowhere else to go. Yeah. And do you remember what you thought about yourself? I don't remember specifically anything about like myself. I just felt. Sad and. Confused. I guess unwanted is like the first thing that comes to mind. Yeah, so that's that's important, right? Because if I think about the I've hypothesized what some of your intrusive thoughts are, and I think unwanted is a great way to encapsulate like what is the label on that portal. Right. It's like I'm like, be careful, Jody, because they may not want you. They want you to move in with them, but be careful, because if they really know who you are, they won't want you anymore. Right. And so I can tell by your face that that hurts a little bit when I say it. Right. So what are you feeling right now? How that makes me really sad. And. Like. How it's also unfair to others for me to have that. Judgment of them, like to think that they are like. The other struggle that I have is like people are telling me, no, Jody, we love you. Like, I'm here for you. I'm not going to randomly leave you. And then I'm like, well, I know, but and then like, not only am I sad, I'm now like disrespecting their words. And how does that feel about yourself? Not good. Yeah. Right. So you blame yourself. For fearing. And so now, like, there's been a big change. Like, you've been really vibrant. You've been really open. Now you're sitting back. Your arms are crossed. Right. So, like, we're getting there. So now what we're doing is like, so these feelings are there. And. You know, so like, this is, I think, how we're going to have to work through this, because I think it's a little bit of a. I think how we're going to have to work through this, because I think the issue here is that you do have that little kernel of like doubt. And then, like, there's a lot of self blame there, too, because, like, if you think about it, even now, the way that when you get mad at yourself. Right. Like, you think that you're the one who's at fault. So, like, like, you're mature and you can understand that you didn't really do anything wrong back then. But even now, there's actually a second portal, which is like, it's your fault. Do you see how that's like. But that's just as wrong as the first one. I don't like see you say that, and I can logically agree. And then I think back on myself in these moments and I'm like. There's just no way that every single person that has wronged me is like one way straight. OK, this girl saw me bathing, bathing suit. Well, then I'm like, it was so long ago that I'm and I feel this way. And she was so vehemently like affected by it as well. I'm like, you know, that I'm like, well, what if it wasn't her bathing or like what if it was her bathing suit? And that can relate to any other situation, too. I'm like, well, what if it wasn't my parents switching work? Like, what if they just didn't like me this whole time and they finally got the chance to not be friends with the man anymore? And that was why they were so mean on top of just like having to distance himself from me. OK, give me a give me a moment. I was very helpful that you said that, Jody. Yeah, that's all the same thing. OK, so let me. So what we've got to do is we've got to understand what are the different processes that are running in your mind and where do they come from? So I'm going to lay out like a little bit of a like system. OK, so your mind has a conscious layer and it has an unconscious layer. Right. And so what happens is any time we feel a lot of emotional pain that that. That hurt goes dormant and sort of becomes malware and then sends pop ups. So like, you know, if we think about like a phobia, for example, like if I get attacked by a dog and then like the next day I'm like gaming and playing Halo, it's like no big deal. My conscious mind is completely fine. And then I hear a dog bark inside my house and I'm like, oh, shit. And then that dormant fear of the dog that came from the trauma surfaces in my mind and starts generating all these thoughts, even though there may be like it may be like the TV or something like that. I may not actually be in any logical danger, but my mind doesn't give a shit because that emotion is there and it like spawns thoughts. So just now you said, I think a really telling use the telling sentence that makes me think that this is actually an echo from the past, which is when you say, oh, they finally had the excuse to get rid of me. Right. So that is a thought from a nonconfident person. That's what you're kind of saying. So like, if you think about the thinker who generates that thought that thinker believes that they are not intrinsically valuable. And so if we think about it like that's kind of confusing because you're confident in yourself, but then you have this like portal that's like spawning that has these lingering beliefs. And just like me hearing a dog, what actually happens is your mind has this function where I know it sounds so simple, but what your mind does is look at the environment and then figure out which unconscious programs to turn on. Right. So if I hear my child crying, my subconscious mind is going to activate like go into dad mode. And then if I'm like, you know, if Q pops when I'm playing a game of Dota, my mind is like, forget about dad mode. Go into wrecking shitties mode. Right. So like your mind is like constantly opening up programs that are appropriate. And so what I think is happening with you is that you've you as you encounter situations with new friendships that seem to be going in the right direction. Your mind is like, hold on a second. We've been here before. And be careful because when this person bullied you and this is so this is why it's so fucking traumatizing. It's so interesting. It's like she bullied you once. But what really hurts is that you all became friends and then she did it again. Like that's so much worse. Like she was she had grown up. And y'all were supposed to be friends. And y'all sort of were friends. And so then your mind learns. That friends are going to steal my bathing suits. And so then you're going along and then your roommate and best friend is like, hey, let's be roommates. And then there's this part of your mind that's like, hold on a second. We've been here before. She's going to take your bathing suit and then she's going to talk shit about you to everyone that you know. And then they're going to realize everyone's going to realize that I'm a bad person. Right. But I know it's weird. So what do you, Penny, for your thoughts, because I don't know where you are right now. Right. As you said that I it's not actually that I. So it's more so I specifically think of my roommate right now who I think really highly of. I actually like. It's when I think about what would happen, I'm like, she's just this great, well-rounded woman that I view herself highly that she's going to look at me and be like. And then it's not so much talk shit. It's just that she's going to realize that she can have just better friends than me. Yeah. OK, so the talk shit was off, but that you will be revealed. Right. To be worth less than what you're faking it. Like everyone is, you know, oh, she liked it. Her hair like, oh, that's so great, but she doesn't realize that I'm not really worth a whole lot. And so I can understand why you feel sort of like, like, obviously, that's not confidence. But what I think this is, is a some scar, which is the sort of buried emotion and somewhere along the way your mind kind of learned that you are not worth very much. And so what happens is as long as that core belief is sitting in your subconscious, it's going to continue spawning these thoughts, because that's kind of what it does. It's sort of like, you know, it's like a generator. It's like a thought generator. And there are some situations that are going to trigger them. The interesting thing is that you can get rid of that. So I think if you haven't seen a therapist, like a therapist sounds like it would be like a good move for you and like work through some of these things. It's not the only way to get rid of it, but it's something that I'd highly recommend that you try. What do you think about that, by the way? I've always wanted a therapist. It was just like the means of finding one and also just delegating the time for one. Okay, so, you know, just as an aside, so therapy is really designed to treat, diagnose and treat mental illnesses, right? So it can be used for a lot more than that. But what I really think about is like therapy is about bringing people up to baseline, like if they're below baseline. The other thing you could always try, because it's quite accessible and easy, is you could try our coaching program. I think there's now a specific deal that we have with Twitch where they're supporting that kind of thing. And a lot of creators seem to be like getting help from it. So, you know, I can send you more information about either. We will send you information about how to find a therapist if you're interested or how to sign up for the coaching program. And I'd be curious, you know, whether you would find that helpful or not. But our coaches are sort of trained in this methodology of like trying to understand, like, you know, where does this stuff come from? Where was I going? Yeah, so I think that, Jody, the other thing to kind of just think about is that like when I say some of these words and you feel hurt. Now, this is going to get weird, OK, because that is bringing the past into the present. So you were saying that you usually go from the present into the past. Right. So the way that you digest, the way that you control, delete and task that thing, because I want you to think about it like an emotional echo. It's like you had all that hurt, like there's just so much hurt back then. And you've learned how to wall it off with humor. So, like, you've learned how to minimize the pop up. So it's like just sitting there at the bottom of your task bar, but it's still taking up RAM. You don't see it anymore. And you kind of laugh like any every time you like instead of hitting the X, you've learned how to do it. You've learned how to minimize. And that's what humor is. And you have a lot of humor. And so like the more you laugh, like the more that's something there. And so the way that you close it is by bringing that past into the present and see like already now you're like a little bit more relaxed. Your arms are uncrossed. Like I'd imagine you're feeling less emotion because we're processing it. Right. You were like. And then like now it's like, OK, so like it kind of gets lighter. And over time, like that emotional energy will like start to dwindle as you like sit with it now. And what I would kind of say is that like I understand that 23 year old Jodi has understood all these things. And you're like a grown and strong and capable woman who's moved out and is financially independent. And like you're confident. Right. It's so confusing because there's like also the like seven year old Jodi is floating around in your unconscious. And you carry her with you because she never like processed because kids don't. Questions. I'm absorbing. OK. I'm just trying to think about whether I have other things to say. Yeah, so let's just sit with that for a second and then like let me know. Process and then let me know if you have thoughts or questions. It's an interesting thought to me to consider my 23 year old self as this and my seven year old self as this rather than this. Yep. Yeah. That's what's really confusing for people. Right. As we think about our mind as monolithic. But like you're clearly a confident person, Jodi, and you're also clearly not confident at times. So how can those two contrary things exist? And what the yogis figured out is that the mind is not a thing. It is a fluctuation. So fluctuations at a particular wavelength produce a particular sound and fluctuations at a different wavelength produce a different sound. So in the right circumstance, hopefully when you're with your boyfriend or hanging out with your mom, you produce a particular wavelength where you feel confident and good in yourself. And there are certain circumstances that will hit a certain twang on your guitar string. It'll hit a different guitar string. It'll create a different fluctuation in your mind and then you'll feel less confident. And so people are confused, but like that's how it works. And so it's essentially what we can do by like bringing the past into the present. If you want to, I can we can do more of that. I'll basically say things that are going to make you feel more of the hurt come up. Right? Because I know how to tune your guitar strings. And so I can say things to you that are going to be like empathic and I will pity you and then it's going to like bring up this emotion. Right? If I start to feel sad for you, it's going to like it's going to be weird. You're going to try to laugh it off for a little while and then like, you know, but if I persist and I don't let you score a lot of points, it's going to be like, oh, I'm going to do this. I'm going to fall away and like make me smile. And if I persist in being sad for you, then like something weird is going to happen. I just don't know that we want to go there today. Does that make sense? It is so interesting to me. That. I have subconsciously been doing that. Like I really, really have. I don't want people to feel bad for me. Yeah, I'm like really intrigued by that. I didn't really notice that I. As much as I want to talk and tell my story at the same time, I don't want that exact story to make people sad or like. Feel bad for me. You want to go there? Or enough for today? Seriously, it's. What's wrong with making people feel sad? Um. I don't think. I don't think I'm going to be sad. I don't think I'm going to be sad. Um. I don't. I guess I don't think to myself it's wrong to make people feel sad. Yeah, I know. I just think that I approach conversations or just whatever in general as I want to make people laugh. Why is that important to you? Uh, it. Brings me joy like it makes me feel fulfilled. Yeah. OK. So it's definitely like also a selfish thing like I'm approaching this conversation. To make you laugh, which in turn makes me feel fulfilled, which is like streaming like I want to farm little W's not like D colons. I don't know what that means. They're just emotes. OK. Pretty much. I just don't. Is a D colon a penis? No. OK. Because you know, penis is a part of the D. The D is the. So is so many other things. I don't know. I don't know. It's a bunch of colons followed by a D. Is that not the same thing? The D colon is like the sad blue face. I don't even know. Yeah. Anyways, it's like the sadness shock emotes. OK. OK. Oh, yeah. These are like the cheat codes where if you type in something, it shows an emote. Yeah. I recently got a cheat code. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. OK. So it shows an emote. Yeah. I recently discovered that I was figuring out how to make a fish. I see. I figured out the fish is four O's. Right? OK. OK. Do you feel fulfilled now? Yeah. Interesting, right? So we can make you laugh and then feel fulfilled. So what's it like if we don't laugh? How do you feel? Um. I may have just screwed it up, by the way, if we were going to try to go there. I may have just destroyed the emotional wavelength, but whatever. I. Maybe for another day. I can't. I don't. Maybe like it's not uncomp... Unsettled, maybe? Or like. It can't end there. Like if we end the conversation sad, I like. Cannot. OK, right. So what I'm hearing is that you can't sit with the sadness. Yeah. Right. So like that's so until you can sit with the sadness, the intrusive thoughts will continue. Hmm. Right. So what we've got to do is like let seven year old Jodi like come and sit in our lap and we've got to let her cry and we just have to like kind of be there with her and let her cry and like pat her on the back. You know, we don't need to distract her with jokes and tell her everything's OK. Like we have to sit with her and tell her like, hey, what happened to you is not OK. And it's not fair that you feel like you're a bad person because you're not a bad person. And it's really, really sad that they have done something to you to make you feel and believe that you are not a good person and that you are not worth being friends with. And you don't deserve that. And you didn't do anything wrong. What was that like for you? Well, the whole time I'm like, see, no jokes, no cracking up. But I also like. It's like so a part of me wants to hear those words and allow that and allow me to feel those raw emotions. And then the other part of me is like. He cannot. Yeah. What would happen if I did? I just feel like. Emotion that I show that is not calculated is wrong. OK, so I can take that. I think we're at a good stopping point for today. If you have more thoughts and questions, I think that's totally fine. But what I mean to say is that I think we've reached a good spot and we shouldn't push any further. I think we've reached the limit of. How far I understand that you're willing and enthusiastic consciously, I think subconsciously, this is like this was hard for you. And so I think you did a great job, but I don't think we should push anymore. So a couple of things. One is you got to give this time right, because for. Years, if not decades. You haven't like, you know that he cannot is like that's a strong like you've that there's a lot of strength behind that. Does that make sense? It's like a minotaur. It's like not know is what it's saying. Is what it's saying. And so that we have to we don't want to force it. It's going to have the opposite result, right? So like what we're doing is like when you're under the bridge or under the stairs and in a pile of wood chips, what we don't want to do is like, I'm not going to reach my hand in and like yank you out. And I'm like, you don't have to be down there. I'm going to know. No, what we're going to do is we're going to sit outside. We're going to sit right by the stairs and we're going to be like, Jodi, whenever you're ready, I'm here if you want to come out and we can talk about it. And then Jodi's like, no, I'm not. No, go away. And so we're just going to sit and we're going to be patient. So you need to give yourself some time. Another thing to think about because you are a streamer is that, you know, when we talk about boundaries, so we should really think about whether this is the kind of thing that are we making it hard for you, harder than it needs to be or that it deserves to be because you're talking about it on stream. So we want to create an environment where maybe privacy would help you come out more. Definitely something to think about, right? Because you do say, I don't want people to feel this way. So like, that's fine. Leave your streamer persona how it is. But you get to have a space, maybe privately, like you can kind of think through that. But I really encourage you to like learn how to sit with it because I think that's because I think like she's been down there for a while and like she doesn't, you know. And she's like under the stairs and then like you're going about your business and then occasionally she'll sob and send a thought your way. Right. So thoughts about that questions. Does that sound OK to you? Yes. OK. I am really welcoming the idea of seeing myself underneath the stairs covered in wood chips and seeing that as myself, but also seeing that as like just a little girl that I would comfort and treat a little differently. You got to treat her like your cat. Yeah. That's what the girl under the stairs needs, right? Like she just, you know. And I think that like, by the way, this is what we call like another bunch of Instagram posts about self-compassion. That's what that is, by the way. Right. So I think you're really good at protecting other people. You're really good at making them laugh. But I don't know that you're actually compassionate towards yourself. I can tell that you're kind of a treat yourself kind of person. Like I get that. I get that you're like about living, which is it. But that's 23 year old you. And I get that. I get that vibe. But, you know, that's self-compassion and it's something that's hard to learn. Cool. Cool. So I also oftentimes will teach people how to meditate. I'm sort of drawing a blank there, but I'm curious. Are you interested in meditation? Yes. OK. I think I have to come up with something. OK, I'm going to need a minute. Is that OK? That's fine. What are we going to do? What kind of meditation helps for being buried in wood chips? I want to teach you something fun. But what do I know that's fun? It's going to help you. Have you tried meditation before? OK, so I also try to teach a little bit of variety, but it's occurring to me that maybe what we need to do is just because we've never had done meditation, we still got to start with the basics. We can't jump straight to advanced techniques. So I'm going to tell you, you've got two options. You've got one that's energetic and one that's calming. Which one do you want? Energetic. OK, so I'm going to teach you how to chant. OK, we're going to do om chanting. This is going to sound weird. All right, so I've learned how to not leak things. I've got to move to push to talk. And this gets really confusing for everyone because I forget to push push to talk. So you probably can't hear me anymore. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to forget to push push to talk a lot. So it's going to be rough on you. OK. So this we have to do just because of the way that discord voice activity picks up the chant. So I'm going to chant om. So om is composed of three syllables. Ah, ooh, and mm. And the reason that we sort of do that is because om starts with a fully open mouth. So open your mouth as loud as you can or wide as you can and then make a sound. Right now? Yeah, yeah, try it. As wide as I can. Yeah. And then make a sound. Ah. There you go. See, there's ah, right? OK. And then close your mouth entirely and then make a sound. Mm. There we go. Right. So that's the ah and the mm. And in the middle of those is going to be the ooh. So ah, got me. So that's actually where so like this is pretty confusing because people is like, oh, om is like the fundamental sound of the universe, man. It's not. It's really not. I mean, sure, sure. It's the fundamental sound of the universe. You know, if you're a yoga calendar. But what it really is, it's just like, ah, OK, so that's oh. So we're going to do is chant it five times. I want you to really use your testicles to their maximum when you're chanting. OK. And so I'm going to demonstrate once and then we'll do it once together. We'll check in for a second. Just make sure that you feel comfortable doing it. And then we'll do like five rounds. OK. So I'm going to sit up straight. So it's important when you meditate that your back be straight. So since you're a premed, I'm going to ask you questions that will test your ability to, you know, be a surgeon. So what are the different positions that your back can be straight? Lying down. Yes. Yep. And standing up. Right. So those are the three beautiful. Right. So like it. Perfect. So that's why those are the three positions that we can do when we meditate. Another little tip. How tall are you? Five, three. And do your feet touch the floor when you're in your chair? No. Or your feet down right now? I have a yoga block. You have a yoga block where? Oh, beneath your feet. My feet. OK. So this is what I want you to do. Can you sit cross-legged? Yes. OK. So but this is going to be tricky. You're going to have to put the cat down because what I want you to do is sit on the yoga block. Put your butt on the yoga block. Put your butt on the yoga block and then sit cross-legged so that how big is yoga block is small, right? Yes. My yoga block is small. Yeah. So I want you to sit on it like under your bum. Oh, my chair. Yeah. On your chair. And so that you're but I want you to notice. So it's just put let's let's start with this. Put the cat down. Hi, honey. OK. What's the cat? Oh, he's sad. Oh, he's sad. He's like, where am I? OK. No yoga block. OK. No yoga block yet. No yoga block yet. OK. OK. Cross-legged first. Just sit cross-legged. Indian style if you want to culturally appropriate something. OK. So notice what your back is doing. What's your back doing? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, no one can see Jodi. Thanks, wife. OK. So so you're going to be slumping a little bit maybe. You feel that? No. No. OK. So now I want you to sit on the yoga block, but like not don't have your feet on the yoga block like sit. Just elevate your butt. OK. Grabbing my yoga block. OK. Oh, my gosh. Now sit. Try to sit cross-legged. I can't hear you. And now try to sit cross-legged. Oh. Oh. Tell us what happened. It's comfy. It's like this is much comfier. Your back is naturally straight. Right? Yeah. It's weird. Physics. That's yoga for you. I'm much taller now. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're five five. Definitely. OK. So now I'm going to demonstrate. So we're going to sit up straight. OK. And then I'll demonstrate one round. Got it? Yes. OK. Like I said, use your testicles. Yeah. I'm impressed by how long you were able to hold that. Yeah. It doesn't need to be that long. OK. OK. So deep breath in and let's begin. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Great job. A couple of things to do. One is eyes need to be closed. Secondly, is if you bob your head around, your back is not straight. Spine needs to stay straight. OK. Nope. None of this bobbing of the heads. That's too much cultural appropriation. You only get to do that if you're Indian. Ah, ooh, and mm. Okay. Ah. Good. I definitely cannot hold it as long as you at the end. That's okay. So just do it. We'll shorten it, okay? So I want you to do whatever you're comfortable with in terms of the length. And I want, you did great. You may feel a little bit silly or self-conscious. I want you to just chant through it. So we're going to do five rounds in a row. Let me just think about whether, do you feel comfortable leading and I'll kind of follow your lead or do you want me to lead? Yeah. Okay, you lead. Okay, so I'll follow you. So you go for it. Eyes closed, five rounds. And then after we're done, I want you to just stay silent with your eyes closed. I know this is going to sound weird. Sit in the post-meditation space. You can continue to breathe and stuff. I know it sounds weird. You'll understand when we get there. Just hang out after we're done with the practice and when you're ready to open your eyes. Do you want to sit on a pillow instead of the block? Would that be easier? I'm struggling on the block. Okay. All right. But thankfully I have a plethora of pillows here. Yeah. All right. There we go. Okay. Back straight. Take it away, Jodi. Okay. Beautiful. Great. Again. Three more. Last one. Big deep breath. Okay. If you're ready, you can go ahead and come on back. Okay. I came back a little bit earlier to be honest, but you went over it and then I closed my eyes. I can tell. I can tell. I can tell. You just have a lot of trouble just sitting fucking still. So we'll teach you that. Yeah. Yeah. So this is why I like to combine meditation. So if you want to see a therapist, I think we're going to send you some information. Everyone who comes on stream will send you like a guide of how to find a therapist and stuff like that. You know, if you want to sign up for the coaching program, whatever. But here's the cool thing. So I think meditation works very synergistically with therapy if you decide to go that route, because what we're going to literally teach you how to do is sit and just sit with what you feel without reacting to it. Right. Because right now, Jodi, what you really the biggest thing that I'd say you need to grow is like you need to be able to sit with things without reacting to them. Very reactive. I mean, don't get me wrong. It's a beautiful reaction, but it's still like reactive. You can't tolerate so many things. And so you sit. You're fine. You're perfect. Just the way you are. You don't need people to think differently. You don't need to be different. You don't need to have a different color hair. You don't need to do this. You don't need to do that. You're great. Just the way you are. Your cat understands this. Cat doesn't want you to be different. You're just be you. Feel me? Yeah. Okay. See, that was good. You sat with it. It's good. Questions, thoughts before we wrap up for the day. I do not have any. Okay. Well, thank you very much for coming on. Good luck to you. Thank you for having me. Yeah, it was awesome. Yeah, I feel really good about this. Yeah. And good luck to you. And, you know, keep us posted. And, you know, if you ever need us to attack anyone who is wrong to you, just let us know because we're good at that. Okay. Let me know if anyone wrongs you. I'm good at that too. Cool. Okay. So take care and good luck and, you know, keep us posted. All right. You too. Bye. Bye. So who are we raiding? Who are we raiding? I can't tell. Is Fusli a real person? I feel like you guys are trolling me.