 Alright, we gotta do this one. How do I poop in public? Because of COVID and the prolonged comfort of being able to poop in my own home 24-7, that other than back working in person, I'm having trouble pooping at work. If someone else is already in the restroom, I just leave. If someone walks in while doing while I'm doing my business, I often can't finish and end up pinching it off and leaving. Even if I have the restroom to myself, I'll have anxiety about the potential of someone walking in. Does anyone else struggle with this? Got any tips, tricks, meditations? This is one where when I was reading this, I gotta scroll down because it was brilliant. If you lay toilet paper down in the bowl, there's no splash or noise so you can poop silently. Next level plays, chat. Next level plays. Let me tell you what. This is why I love the subreddit. So here's the thing. Dr. K has a lot of answers, but I don't have all the answers and they're not the best ones. There are some real five heads in our community and what I love about the subreddit is the five heads have your back. I had this answer like, oh, look at yourself and think about what do I... I think what I say still is valid in the sense that play the tape through to the end is what I would say. When you guys have an anxiety about something, I give you all a technique, which is play the tape through to the end. Let's say that you do drop a deuce and there's a splish-splosh or a plonk in the pool. Then what is it that you're worried about? What happens after that? Just play the tape through. Because this is the thing, a lot of fears are nebulous. Fears can be a lot like mirages, where the closer you get to them in your mind, the more they disappear. When I talk to people who have anxieties like this, and we explore their anxieties, what we'll find over time is that there's a primal fear, but it's not actually logical in nature because it's emotion. The closer you look at it, the weaker it gets. I would say play the tape through to the end and then think, okay, so then they'd hear and then what? Are they ever going to talk to you about it? No, they're not going to talk to you about it, but they're going to know, and they're going to think, and they're going to know it was me. How are they going to know it's you? I don't know. They're going to look at my shoes. There's someone at your place of work that's looking underneath the stalls to see who's in the stall. What? As you play the tape through to the end of your anxiety, you'll start to see that there are weird things that don't really line up. Eventually, when you play the tape through, essentially what happens is, in my experience, a lot of times the strength of the fear will diminish the more that you play the tape through the end, but in some cases it doesn't work to be TBH. In that case, I'd say use this five-head boop and just lay some toilet paper in so it doesn't plonk-plonk. It's great.