 I see like invent investment bankers in my office that make you know over a million dollars a year and they still feel like failures like it's bizarre. So let's start with with this question how do you accept failure so san asks how do you accept failure when you know you've done all that you can i feel that i have a really hard time accepting failure when i tried my hardest and still fail sometimes that seems to be happening more and more as i get older i can't help but think of my consequences as failures. So oddly enough i'm gonna read the question kind of a second time so how do i oh shit where i just do. How do i accept failure when i've done everything that i can so i'm gonna start by actually disputing the premise of the question. So i believe that generally speaking when you truly believe that you've done everything that you can it becomes easier and easier to accept failure. Failure becomes hard to accept when you don't believe that you've done everything that you can. So i wonder whether you truly believe that you've done everything that you can because at that point it sort of becomes like it becomes common sense right like if i you know if i if i like. Buy a lottery lottery tickets i'm just trying to think of a good example. So if i like if i if i really dig down and i give it my all my experience of that and people that i've worked with is that generally speaking when you give it your all and you fail there's actually a bizarre amount of peace with that. Right you kind of like the way that you feel is like okay i gave it my best shot and i can actually be proud of what i did like i could be proud of the way that i showed up that day. Can i gave it my best and it wasn't good enough. I work with some professional athletes and like one of them is a golfer and he was kind of telling me that like. You know so golf is kind of an weird competitive sport because you're not really like competing against other people. Like nothing anyone else does on the golf course can impact the game that you play it's not like you know a competitive e-sport like league of legends or doter overwatch where. You get out play like you can't out play anyone in golf because you're just competing against yourself really. And so when it comes to success or failure in golf it's just about the game that you play when you showed up. And even when you think about e-sports like when i work with e-sports athletes like people talk about you know how good of a job they did and there's a lot of peace with doing the best job that you can and not getting something. In my experience if you feel like you're it's difficult to accept failure chances are you actually need to dig deeper and really think about did you do everything that you could do. Because then it's like if you really did everything that you could do like. You know it's out of your control like sometimes you're just when you try you're just gonna fail like that's just a given. So why is it that you can't accept that failure is an option is that because you have an unrealistic expectation about yourself. Is it because you actually think you you know deep down. And this is what i put my money on you know deep down that you could have done more. What you did and there's something that's holding you back and i think that's what you really need to explore. Even when things are out of your control it can be hard to accept failure. Yeah that's true i mean i think sometimes it can be hard to accept failure and i think that. How can i say this. So it's there's a difference between. We just think. So we talked about this a little bit i think on our last stream so i introduce this concept of karma farta. So karma means action and farta means. Root. And so a couple thousand years ago there's this there was this conversation between a guy named Krishna and a guy named Arjun Krishna sort of reviewed is like a Hindu god. Arjun was a prince. And what Krishna explains to Arjun in this conversation called the Bhagavad-gita is that as a human being you're not actually entitled to the fruits of your actions all you're entitled to is your actions. And that's kind of a bizarre way of of thinking about life like let me put it this way like i'm not entitled to an A. In a class like i'm not actually entitled to an A the only thing i'm entitled to is like studying i can study as hard as i want to for a test. And there's still a chance that i'm going to fail there's nothing i can do to guarantee getting an A but that's not the way that we think right. We think that our actions actually control outcomes but in the purest sense of the word like they do not like that's just not absolutely true. So i can work really hard to become a doctor and i can on the day of my graduation i can be walking down the street and i can get hit by a meteor it's possible. I can work really hard to become a doctor but i can't actually control whether i become a doctor or not. Right like maybe there are all kinds of bizarre things that can get in the way of like me controlling my future. And so i think a lot of people have trouble accepting failure because the root of accepting failure is in understanding what you are entitled to and what you are not entitled to. So like people get hung up like so if i let's say that there's there's someone that i'm attracted to and i get so caught up in them and i like really really want them to like. I you know i want them to i want to ask them out and i want them to say yes and i do everything that i can to control them saying yes. I start being really nice to them i start working out i demonstrate myself as caring i pick them up from the airport i you know like when they break up with their current boyfriend. I'm the shoulder to cry on i do everything right and somewhere along the way i start to become entitled. Just to having a relationship with them the more that i invest in that relationship i become entitled to a particular outcome the more that i study for a test i become entitled to the egg. And then when i don't get the a it becomes really hard to accept that. What i think that the origin of being unable to accept failure comes from a miscalculation to what you are truly owed in life. It's so the big thing that you need to do if you're having trouble. Accepting failure is really stop and think about like what was i owed in this situation. Did i do the best that i can and like is it really mind in control whether i succeed or fail because most of people like go through life expecting a particular success. It's a you really need to stop and think about like. I failed and did i really deserve to succeed was i entitled to success. The more you step away from that the easier the easier it is to actually like start to accept failure. So. This is sort of a slightly related question do you feel like you can hide behind self improvement in regards to your calling i.e. seamless self improvement without concrete meaningful goal in mind. So i want to talk a little bit about. So i'm gonna just talk actually let me just jump into this question so how do you reconcile with failure when you know you could have done more but you didn't. That's the problem right. So. A lot of what's difficult to accept about failure is you feel like you could have done more and that in a sense is a true failure because it's sort of like you know you could have acted more but you didn't. And i think the biggest way to overcome let's just like understand what that means right so when you how do you reconcile with failure when you know you could have done more but you couldn't you didn't. So let's just think a little bit about it may not three twenty ninety sevens question so what are you doing to yourself when you. Acknowledge that you could have done more but you didn't you're blaming yourself right so let's understand first of all that you're beating yourself up and you're blaming yourself so now the question becomes. How do you help someone who's getting beaten up. How do you help someone who's getting blamed. Right so like the answer there is compassion. So if someone is like having like a rough time and they're getting like beat up and this is the confusing thing because we offer compassion to other people when they when they're the when they're the ones getting beat up we don't offer compassion to ourselves we're so good at beating the shit out of ourselves we're so good at putting ourselves down because we don't practice self compassion. So how do you reconcile failure when you know you could have done more you didn't the answer is forgiveness. Forgiveness. You need to accept that you're not perfect and that you deserve some slack because you can't be perfect all the time but that's not how our mind thinks. Right we think like oh I could have done it therefore I'm going to beat myself up for not doing it but if you think about like let's say you've got a body who. Says oh man like you know I'm trying to diet and I like didn't I like you know for a week I like a pizza and like all this other stuff that I'm not supposed to like how do you respond to that person you're like hey man that's okay like cut yourself a break you've done such a good job here and here. Just like cut yourself some slack man but you don't say that to yourself. And so I think if you're having trouble reconciling with your failure because you felt like you could have done more. First of all it's good to acknowledge that in the second thing that you need to do to prevent that because those negative emotions are going to actually lead to more failure in the future so what you really need to do is learn how to forgive yourself. Cut yourself a break right say like hey I'm not perfect. Like I'm not perfect so sometimes I'm not going to be able to achieve I'm not going to be able to function like optimally. And that'll help you get you overcome the failure. Yeah and so now I'm getting. All this stuff about how compassion doesn't naturally. Exist so I'm a little bit torn because I have other questions but this feels like it's resonating with people so I'm going to stick with this thread for a little bit. So now I'm going to ask you guys like why aren't we compassionate towards ourselves. Right let's just think about this for a second. So like where like like so let's think about Helen's interview like so Helen is not really compassionate with herself right she blames herself for all kinds of stuff under the sun. So how do we learn. Why is it that we aren't compassionate towards herself. And this is kind of a really dangerous idea but like I want people to really understand this like what kind of person doesn't deserve what kind of person are you not compassionate towards. What think about that for a second who would you so generally speaking were compassionate towards most people. What were not compassionate towards some people right. Absolutely right so people are saying degenerates. Like there are some people out there who we don't feel deserve compassion. So assholes people with low self worth had a files degenerates and so if you're not compassionate towards yourself what can we logically conclude. About how you view yourself. What we can conclude is that they don't deserve compassion. So just think about that for a second so why aren't you compassionate towards yourself it's because you don't feel like you deserve. We look at Helen we see that right she feels like she's a failure. Because she doesn't and she's not compassionate towards herself because she doesn't deserve it. And so if you're having trouble being compassionate towards yourself you need to really think about how you view yourself you probably view yourself as a piece of shit. There's a part of you that isn't worthy of compassion there's a part of you that's degenerate. And like that's that's scary it's true but it's scary because then the question becomes. How did you learn like where did you get that opinion of yourself like this is really important understand that a lot of people like like this is a learned behavior. Like this is a learned behavior right like we learned that we're failures it's not. It's not like we just wake up and like the default position is for human beings to believe their failures like with Helen we saw it. It was like she applied to 13 PA schools she didn't say a bunch she didn't say a few she said she applied to 13 like that number is seared in her mind and she didn't even get into a single one. That's when she gets the idea like oh man i'm a piece of shit. That's when that gets seared into a brain it's it's like a brand that gets branded into your psychology. For everyone out there who feels like they're a degenerate and who feels like they're a failure like the first place you got to start is where did you learn that because that's something you learn it's not the default state.