 When it comes to social interaction, it's not a problem as long as we're talking about how to stalk people You guys I ask a question about how to make friends and no one has a fucking clue but we talk about how to stalk people and invade their privacy and make them feel uncomfortable and Everyone's got a fucking answer and they're also diverse, right? What's your social security number? Can you open the blinds when you sleep? Oh my god. Do you come to this train often or your parents home? Right, so like okay Here's the thing if you want to make friends you take the part of you that is funny because all of you guys are clearly hilarious and Then you just make it not cringe-worthy Right, you just make it about like like pretend like use that same funny part But then make it about something that is not invasion of someone's personal space or privacy So, what do you guys feel and you guys feel like talking about like meditation questions about meditation Finding friends in real life habit practical tips for Vata Someone's talking about becoming a pro gamer Okay, finding friends let's do it. Okay. So here's the question Okay Let's do friends, okay, so here's the first one Hello firstly I had a question about finding friends in real life It seems that most regular people meet other people through the people they already know What do you do after moving to another city state or country? What would you do if you've been gaming for years and realize you have no real-life relationships? Fantastic question so the first thing is I think You know when we think about friendship we think about it just like a random topic like we think about it like Food or philosophy like no one really stops Okay, the mic peaks Let me see if I can the gain is already down I It's all the way down Crackles a bit when I get loud, okay. Well, we'll have to fix that later. I'll just try to keep my voice somewhat monotone whisper whisper Okay, I can keep it a little bit further away so let's see if that helps so does this sound okay Okay, so let's let's first understand like How friendship works, okay? So I want you guys to understand that just about anything about your psychology or anything about your choices or habit or Where you are in life or where you want to go in life or if you're struggling with something you can apply sort of like Mathematics engineering and science to it to try to figure out how it works So first question that I have for y'all is how does friendship work? Like what is the mathematical equation for you and someone else to become a friend? What do you guys think the variables are? What do y'all think we're gonna try this Be alive common interest personality traits proximity, okay So what we're gonna do Okay, I'm gonna use word Common interests all day, so do you guys have friends? Do you guys have friends that you don't share interests with You don't know because you don't have friends Pepe hands So common interest is not one of the most important things for friendship so think about the friends that you guys have made so far What how have you made your friends? If you guys like you guys had friends when you were in grade school Sunday class School and work Okay So we have So what does that tell you right so we make friends from school we make friends for work So what does that tell us about like what's important to make a friend? The book is still being made we're gonna add to it Environment but what does that mean environment like what about the environment? Like if you say like so remember the goal of this stream is to practically help people understand stuff Be around people right so okay. Let's just let's debunk these okay. Let's think through these Okay, because we spend a lot of time there and share struggles. Okay. That's the that's we're gonna get into that So the first thing is like be around people so like if I go hang out at a train station Am I gonna make friends? No, right, so it's not just proximity of people so the first thing that you guys need for friendship is a Regular amount of unplanned interaction, okay So if we think about like why do you make friends at school and work it's because you get regular exposure That is unplanned so there's no pressure on anyone Regular exposure that is unplanned with a group of people. That's the first thing that you need for friendship And That's the first thing so the second thing is common cause and I think feral was talking about this, right So if you think about the people that you make friends with like you make friends with them because you guys share like a goal Are you all struggle together? You're in? No You're in you're in kind of like a group together I'm gonna actually transition back to live plus chat so that I can look over here So a regular amount of unplanned interaction and common cause I think are the two most important things for friendship So isn't school or work a planned interaction not between you and the person you show up to class They show up to class classes planned Class is planned, but it's not like you're trying to like get them They're not coming to class for you and you're not coming to class for them a planned interaction is like let's say that I call Up my buddies and I say hey, let's go to the movies. That's a planned interaction And So the first thing to understand about friendship is like you guys need to have regular unplanned interactions with people and y'all need to have Common cause common interests is helpful personality Like Personality stuff is helpful It doesn't mean that you're gonna become friends with everyone that you interact with on an unplanned basis But the most important things for friendship or unplanned interaction and common cause So If you guys want to make friends if we think about that like if we realize that those are the two most important variables And then like the third variable is common interests Then we have to structure a life in which we're being regularly exposed to people without any pressure So this is why people say like go and volunteer or like take a class or something like that You need to go to a place where like you can See other people on a regular basis, so you don't feel pressured It's not like you're hanging out at a train station and be like hey man sitting next to me on the train Do you want to grab brunch next Sunday and hang out for a few hours? Like that's really weird, right? But if you see someone in class Like every every day or three times a week Then like after a while like you can be like hey man, like you introduce yourself one day and then Then like common cause helps a lot. So common cause is like studying together for a test So you and the other person have shared goals There's something that you guys like like y'all are y'all are naturally aligned towards something like if you guys are at Work and like your boss is an asshole you guys have common cause in sort of like combining together to like deal with your boss Right, so if you guys want to make friends the first thing is that so it can be hard when you move to a new city country, whatever but the first thing that I do is I'd structure some activities that you can You're not like there to like pressure people into being your friend you're just gonna go there and do the thing and Hopefully you want to pick activities that other people are going to show up with like on a regular basis so the nice thing about taking a class is that like presumably there are other people in the class who are going to show up every week and so like that's a good way to make friends like people make friends like In AA groups, right? Alcoholics anonymous is like I mean a lot of people make like become friends there because you guys are there and you show up on a regular basis and then like you guys are both trying to not drink and so y'all are looking for people to hang out with who don't drink and So like a is like there are a lot of people that I work with who've made friends through a that's really important because if you're in with a with a friend group that Doesn't you know you're trying to change that friend group then you have to try to you know get out of that And so finding like people that Share a common cause that you guys have common goals that you guys have shared struggles. That's what common cause means It's common goals and shared struggles Someone is asking a is alcoholics anonymous So then the next part of the question is what do you do if you've been gaming for years and realize you have no real-life relationship so then like So first it's important to recognize that right and understand that that's going to come with some Feelings of like shame and discomfort and like feeling like you're you suck at life So understand that those feelings are there and that those are those are not inappropriate feelings because you kind of you've started to kind of fall fall behind in life and then what happens is You start to like acknowledge those feelings and then you move forward Right and like think about think about this guys like so right now in chat. Everyone is talking about being friends Why do you guys like want like how is it that you guys are going to become friends with each other? It's because you guys have regular unplanned interactions like You know when when drew you know and digital dude show up in chat like they're not showing up with the express purpose of hanging Out with each other they're showing up to like listen to the stream and participate in the stream and Then like over time they kind of know each other because they like both talk when they're here right and So this is a prime example and then you guys have common cause because y'all are trying to learn something about your life or improve your life or Get better at life And so like And so like is actually a fantastic example of You know the the recipe for friendship, which is that you need regular unplanned interactions And then you need common cause And so people are talking about you know, is it or e friends the same thing as regular friends? Like they're not the same but I think that they scratch a similar itch So I think that the friendship that you form with people online is authentic I think it's real friendship and you can get a lot of support and validation and and pride and joy out of friends And at the same time like no one over the internet can give you a hug And some of the value of friendship are things that you can't get over the internet So like we have this circuit of our brain that I sort of call the social sonar so a lot of times gamers have difficulty with social interactions because Since so much of their social interaction is over the internet There are a lot of parts of our brain that aren't active over social interaction over the internet And so those parts of our brain become like rusted and they don't work. Well So one good example is like reading body language So when I talk to gamers about being socially anxious around like groups of people Part of the reason that they're socially anxious is because they are not able their brain is not able to interpret body language of people around them And why isn't their brain able to interpret the body language because you don't interpret body language when you're hanging out over discord So your brain much like a language that you don't speak says like oh like I don't need to understand body language because it doesn't Affect my social interactions at all. Let me turn off that circuit And so then when you go into the real world You feel super anxious and you feel like everyone is judging you because normally their body language should reassure you But since your body language the body language Interpreting part of your brain has been shut off because you spend so much time on discord. It can't reassure you And then you you like get super anxious and you think that everyone's like paying attention to you and things like that It's because your social sonar has been disabled. It's not words. It's not it's like all the other stuff It's like sonar. You just sort of detect things Um so I do think that the friendships that you form online are important and real and they're also missing some important parts So there's a there's a hormone. I mean, there's a neurotransmitter in a hormone called oxytocin F What does f mean anyway, there's there's uh, oh is it lagging So I was talking about oxytocin so we're just going to talk for a second about oxytocin then we'll we'll move on So you have a neurotransmitter or hormone called oxytocin Which forms like emotional bonds. So oxytocin is the hormone that causes um mothers To release breast milk. So you have some hormones that cause the breast milk production But then there's another function called breast milk letdown So if you think about like like a postpartum mother like their their milk has I mean their breast has milk in it And the milk just stays there right like it doesn't usually leak Um, it just kind of hangs out there and then what happens is when you you get a suckling sensation on the breast from a newborn infant Then that suckling sensation causes the release of oxytocin oxytocin causes the stored milk to be like opened So it's kind of like opening the faucet for breast milk for for newborn. Uh, I mean, uh postpartum mothers with newborns The other interesting thing about oxytocin is it causes Uh breast milk letdown, but it also fosters emotional bonding So a lot of infant mother bonding is through oxytocin a lot of social, uh interactions are mediated through like like oxytocin enhances social bonding So when people have are sexually active and they cuddle afterward or cuddling in general Causes oxytocin release anytime you hug someone you get a little spurt of oxytocin And that spurt of oxytocin causes you to form a bond with someone else and like gives you positive feelings about them They have positive feelings about you. It sort of helps you feel good. It helps you feel connected to other people The problem is that online interactions don't really foster oxytocin release. So even though the friendship is real You're going to be like your brain is literally in your physiology is going to be missing something from human contact And you just can't really substitute that There were some um There was some uh There were some interesting trials actually in schizophrenia where people tried to like give people oxytocin so that Um, like social interactions with people with schizophrenia would get better, but those sort of were really good in theory, but didn't really work well Um, yeah Uh, can men produce milk? Yes So there are some cases of like tumors and stuff like that where you can get milk production Um, but not in any any significant quantity Um Can work interaction substitute for oxytocin or cuddling if you're physically Uh No, I don't think you interacting with yourself Do you cuddle with yourself after you jerk off? That's the question, right? um, so Generally speaking, I don't think you can create oxytocin by like interacting with yourself. I think you just uh, Yeah, that's that's what's missing Can my pillow substitute? I don't know. I don't think so I mean, so I think that like maybe somewhat but I think that I don't know exactly what It is about cuddling like I don't know where the precise line is for like, you know cuddling or touching or warmth I don't know if it's temperature or like what? It could be just the pillow, I don't know I I don't think that there are any clinical trials that measure oxytocin release after cuddling with a pillow versus a human being And now we're talking about body pillows fantastic, okay Okay, no questions fantastic, okay is can someone ask a uh test question In the stream Because it does I just want to make sure it's working Okay, weighted blankets are very good for insomnia and if you have anxiety before bed Okay, thanks brandon, okay, um Yep, it's working perfect So Let's do another question Okay, so on the on the thread, okay, these are all great questions. Thank you guys What do you think about board games as an alternative hobby to video games? I attend a weekly meetup at a game shop to play games for a few hours with some other people I feel like board games scratch a similar intellectual itch while being in a social environment. So that's perfect Right because we're talking about how to make friends And And I think this is a prime example. So if you're a nerd And you're new to a city Find a board game store Because I think that they do offer a lot of the same things as video games and are social and are also time limited like if i'm going to play like agrikala or secret hitler or code names or resistance With friends of mine like that can be a lot of fun. You're interacting with other human beings You guys are hanging out and also like you can't play that for 12 hours a day like six days a week So I think that board game shops are a fantastic alternative. I think board games are a fantastic alternative to video games I think that once again, I don't think video games are evil and I think you guys should have fun, right? Like you want to be having fun like that's the whole point Is go have fun and go socialize at the same time Um And I think it's a great way to make new friends when you move to a new city what is Man, my hair really needs to I need to get a haircut Okay, second part of the question would be Let's talk about Okay, this is related to friends, okay Second part of the question would be how do you find people who aren't boring as fuck? I love online interaction because it allows you to skip all the social posturing lack of taboos and so on But at the same time I have experienced what it's like to be ghosted by people i've known for years without Knowing anything about them So how do you find people who aren't boring as fuck Okay, so the first thing is like very few people are actually boring Right, like if someone is like if you think someone is boring as fuck Like What what are you looking for and what are they showing you? Like what is that? What is like boring as fuck mean? Does that mean? Um, because it allows you to skip all the social posturing lack of taboos and so on so I mean my guess is that this person has Like maybe like doesn't like like to play by the rules of social norms And he finds he or she finds people that respect social norms like introducing yourself and and not dropping dropping f-bombs when you meet someone To be like cumbersome and boring Um, and so they think small talk and things like that are boring like these are the ways that human beings tend to warm up To each other. It's also like the way that regular human beings figure out if you're a fucking weirdo right, because like if you can't do that, it's sort of like Like you could you can you can Blame or criticize As much as you want to about a social norm and i'm not saying that those aren't like those aren't fair criticisms Like you can say that for example people ask the question. How are you? And That question no one actually wants to know how you are. It's just like a social formality, right? You can say that that's a waste of time and space but And that's true And that's true, but there are also like some conventions that have value Just because everyone else follows them and this is something that's like really hard for people to understand that like when people criticize social norms They're like, oh, yeah, that's stupid. We should just all be authentic But like remember that driving on let's say so I live in the united states So driving on the right side of the road is not like morally better than driving on the left side of the road There's no inherent advantage to driving on the right side of the road The only advantage of driving on the right side of the road is because everyone else fucking drives on that same side of the road And if I decide that I want to be like edgy and I want to be like authentic and I want to be fresh And not a boring fucker. I'm going to start driving on the left side of the road because like why am I going to be like a fucking normie? like Fucking normies like i'm not going to be like that I'm going to just drive the way that I want to And I don't know why these like normies are all driving on the right And and like yeah, there's no inherent value to driving on the right side of the road, but there's value in The there's value in the fact that everyone does it So the first thing is like why are social interactions like basic social interactions? So like laborious for this person? Right, like why can't you just like make small talk with people like what bothers you so much? Small talk with another human being small talk isn't I mean, it's not really fantastic. It's not amazing It's not like a freshly baked chocolate chip cookie But it also isn't like You know six day old mac and cheese that's been reheated three times It's just small talk And I think if you want to get past small talk, you can ask questions to people that are Like interesting And get you to know someone without being invasive So you don't ask someone, you know, what's your deepest darkest fear? I would say yeah, what are your passions? Like that's a weird question to ask someone, right? You like meet someone At the train station and they turn to you and they say what are your passions? Tell me What is it that you are passionate about? You know, it's like that's kind of weird But I would ask them. Hey, like what are you excited about for the next year? Like 2019 is coming to a close and is there anything that that you're really proud of? Right, that's kind of like You know, so you can ask Questions to people like oh if you have you have you traveled anywhere interesting recently like I think travel is a great way to get people talking about stuff You can ask about travel And I think that's a great way to get people talking about stuff You can ask about travel And I think that there's a difference between making small talk and not saying anything and also like completely violating social norms And You know, you can learn a lot about someone and then once they respond So yeah, right. So if I ask someone what's what's tell me about 2019? They say I'm one year closer to death And then you kind of laugh and then you say like yeah, so how does it I mean is one year closer to death a good thing or a bad thing? And then you kind of play ball And if someone says, okay, so like let's play this game Okay, dr. Kanoja is going to take your bullshit answers and respond to them in a fun and easy manner So where have you traveled recently? Yeah, I left the house this morning to get food And it's like wow, like is leaving the house to get food like a good thing or a bad thing? Did you eat something delicious like if you had to if you had to go through all the trouble of of leaving your house Did you at least get something tasty? Like was it worth it? That's the question you ask right? Like was it worth it to leave your house to get what food you got? Yeah, see like and and Deagle eye is giving me smiley face Emotes Right. So like let's get another question like okay. So this one what trains are you excited about? That's a great question So I encourage you guys to go to a party or go to Thanksgiving or go to your holidays and And And like Like ask them about what trains are excited about And then what are you excited about? And then watch their confusion and be like are you excited about any trains or no? I'm confused. Don't you love trains? They're going to think either you're autistic and obsessed with trains Or you can segue into like Thomas the Tank Engine memes Right. What kind of computer do you have? Do you come to this train often is not a good question to ask people Asking people about the regularity of their travel habits and where they're going to be at certain times when you first meet them is not an acceptable question Yeah, so Yeah, asking people if they're here alone. Can I have your number? No, but like okay. So do you guys want to talk about like how do you ask someone out? Do you guys know how to do this? At your parents home At your parents home That's how you ask someone out At your parents home Where do you live? Fucking doxing creepy ass motherfucker to a chat See when it comes to social interaction It's not a problem as long as we're talking about how to stalk people You guys I ask a question about how to make friends and no one has a fucking clue But we talk about how to stalk people and invade their privacy and make them feel uncomfortable And everyone's got a fucking answer And they're all so diverse Right. What's your social security number? Can you open the blinds when you sleep? Like oh my god Do you come to this train often or your parents home? Right. So like okay. Here's the thing If you want to make friends You take the part of you that is funny Because all of you guys are clearly hilarious And then you just make it not cringe worthy Right. You just make it about like like pretend like use that same funny part But then make it about something that is not invasion of someone's personal space or privacy Yeah, that's actually a good question Do you pour milk or cereal first? Right. Like that's That's the question Right. Like that's That's a good question There's a difference between our humor and Normie humor Yeah, just don't make it about stalking people Yeah, so instead of asking Okay, so this goes downhill so fast, right? We start with cereal and milk And then And then we go to This is the divergence of Twitch chat, okay? What's your favorite cereal? To is that a wig? Do you wipe sitting or standing? And showering with socks on So that's a good one. I would ask someone Hey, have you ever showered with your socks on? I heard the wildest thing which is apparently it's supposed to be amazing Do you wipe front to back? It's always front to back It's always front to back, boys and girls Yeah, you could ask people that shower with their socks on They'll think you're fucking weird But they won't think you're stopping them Who the hell stands to wipe? Yeah, good point, Farrell So remember, it's front to back Otherwise you'll end up with a UTI Okay, let's do another question Okay, so Trinian is right We didn't answer the original question The second part of the question would be How do you find people who aren't boring as fuck? I'd say honestly try to engage them in conversation Right, so I think if you find people boring as fuck You're probably not actually Bothering to understand who they are Or what's interesting about them So that's your problem People aren't boring as fuck It's kind of like saying How do you find fresh food in the trash can? It's like you don't look in the trash can You go to a grocery store to find fresh food So if you're interacting with people And you think they're boring as fuck You should just think a little bit about What is it about them that you think is boring And why is it that you're thinking about Why do you find them boring? Try to engage them in a real conversation And start by a couple of softball questions Do you take this train often? Do you close the blinds when you sleep? You can start with easy ones To put them at ease And then you can ask them the real heavy hitters That get you really knowing them as a person Which is Do you wipe sitting or standing? And then you're done No, but I think really just try to Understand that most people have Relatively low expectations I'm saying that most people have like Relatively interesting lives Or relatively interesting Internal experiences of life And try to engage them on that level Try to find out what they're interested about So if you want to be interested in someone Get them talking about what they're interested about It can be really fascinating Like if someone's passionate about fishing Like I don't care about fishing but I have a friend who really likes to fish And it's really cool to hear them talk about fishing Like you learn something Like if there are people who are interested in something Get them talking about what they're interested in You'll probably learn something It'll probably be more interesting I'd love to go deep sea fishing in the Caribbean It's just not something that I didn't grow up fishing Is it true that someone will like you more If you let them talk about themselves Versus you do the talking? I think generally speaking Yes, like I don't think that So I think you have to be careful about the phrasing of that question Is it true someone will like you more If you let them talk about themselves Versus you do the talking? So I think you have to be careful Because you can't really make someone like you So you should step away from the idea That if you do X, Y, or Z That a particular person will like you At the same time I think that a lot of people In conversation tend to be pretty narcissistic Case in point I'm just talking to myself for two hours And I love it This is fun for me So I think the big problem Is that a lot of people are very narcissistic Like a lot of extroverts are very narcissistic And as a result The general advice that people tend to give About how to be successful Is targeted at a minority of the population Which are extroverts and narcissistic So a lot of times People, you know, if you get people Let people talk about themselves I think that's really the better thing Yeah, like you said Let them talk about themselves So if they want to talk about themselves Let them talk about themselves But it's not making them talk about themselves Sometimes people go too far And they're drilling people with questions Because they get this idea Okay, people need to talk about themselves And then they'll like me So if I want to be liked in a social interaction I need to drill people with questions So let is, yeah, you use the word let So I think you use the right word And so I think let is the prime word Right, so you engage someone In a conversation That allows them to talk about themselves And if they feel so inclined You let them But if they're introverted And prefer to hear other people talk Then you pay attention to that and you notice it And then you start talking The other thing that you can do You know, we were talking about this in recovery coach training Is you can just call attention to what is And so for example You know, if you're at a party and you don't know anyone You can walk up to people and say, hey, my name is Alok I'm a friend of so and so's But I just realized, like, I thought that he was going to invite different people But I realized I don't know anyone at this party Nice to meet you Period. How do you think that goes across? Right, that's great So if you're both introverted What you should do is You should walk up to someone and You can tell them, hey, is it okay if I stand here And not talk to you for a little bit? Can we just hang together? And listen to music? Try that Or you could go to a party And you can say Yeah, so How 3979 says I really dislike how the world is centered around Extroverts, even the workplace Are there ways to make it more advantageous for introverts? Yeah, so you should You should understand that, like The world only thinks it's designed for extroverts And if you're an introvert, you just have to play to your strengths So you don't have to try to be an extrovert You just need to understand that your strengths are different And then you can engage people just as well Like you can get promoted So I'll give you guys kind of a couple of examples For my clinical practice So I was working with a guy Who was concerned that he wasn't going to get promoted Because he doesn't, as he puts it Fill the room When he When he's like in it So like he works with other colleagues And like one of his colleagues does a really good job At like what he calls filling the room So their presence is like known Anytime they're in the room They are They're like, they're loud They're boisterous, they come across as confident They make jokes, they're likable And so this person was concerned Because they're up for promotion So it's the introvert versus this guy And he's concerned that the other dude's going to win Because he's just like This, my patient was kind of My patient was kind of like intimidated And was concerned that he was going to get Passed over for promotion So the more that we were talking about it It's not that my patient had a problem Connecting with other people They just didn't want to be like loud in front of a room And so what my patient is really good at Has good relationships around the office As long as they're one on one Because they're really good at like They're like, they're like They're like, they're like They're like, they're like Because they're really good at like Going and grabbing coffee with a co-worker Or grabbing lunch like as long as it's small Intimate situations And so I think if you're an introvert, just understand That like you can still get most of the things That extroverts get Not by necessarily becoming an extrovert But just by playing to your strengths So if you're like lobbying to get promoted What you need to do is have small Interactions with individual people And like have They're going to be like way more meaningful And when it comes time to like reviews Or like when your boss starts asking your co-workers Like they're going to speak very highly of you And then people are saying That you can have a big presence if you're an introvert Absolutely, so I have a big presence And I'm an introvert, right? So it's a skill that you can learn So I love like I mean I love being at home for a week And doing absolutely nothing, I don't have to see another human being I'd be fine on a desert island For a week by myself And if you're an introvert Just understand that your strength Is in the one on one, right? It's kind of like, you know there's like Solo queue and there's party queue It's not like one is better than the other If you like to solo queue, solo queue You can still play the game if you solo queue Like it's not, queue the way you want to And that's just how it is