 We've covered a couple of topics around kind of the neuroscience of how gaming works. And now what I'd like to talk a little bit about is why gaming can feel so paralyzing and how it works that you guys know that your gaming is a problem and you know that you should game less. And you understand that all the way down to the core of your being and yet you're powerless to actually change your behavior. And so now what I'm going to explain to you guys is what's happening in your brain that keeps you from changing that behavior. So in order to understand this, we first have to think back a little bit about how the brain actually learns things. So let's say that I'm, let's say like I'm a five-year-old kid and I touch a hot stove and I get burned. So what happens after I touch the hot stove? So I get the signal of pain and then the pain is really bad and it travels up my arm. And then in my brain, there are pain receptors that sort of activate in my somatosensory cortex. So I feel the pain, I get burned, and then that pain causes me to suffer. And then since I'm a five-year-old, I start crying. When I start crying, there are parts of my brain like my amygdala, which lights up. And the amygdala is the part of your brain that sort of governs fear and negative emotion. And then since I'm feeling that negative emotion, what happens is the amygdala makes connections to this other part of our brain called the hippocampus. And the hippocampus is responsible for learning and memory. And what happens when I touch a hot stove is all it takes me is one try to touch a hot stove to learn to never touch a hot stove again. So if I just get burned once, I'm never going to touch a hot stove again. Makes sense to everyone, right? Like, if you do something and you really get hurt doing it, you're never going to do it again. So let's think a little bit about how that circuit works. So the part of our brain that feels negative emotion is very closely connected to the part of our brain that is responsible for learning and memory. And so if we think about how we learn, pain is actually the best teacher. If we think about how long it takes us to learn something positive, like positive reinforcement, I have to be reinforced multiple times in order to learn something through positive reinforcement. But learning through punishment is very, very easy. If I, for example, stand up and say the wrong thing in class and everyone laughs at me, it's going to be very hard for me to stand up and try to answer a question in class again. Because that experience was so painful, and we learn from pain and we try to avoid pain. That's what our body was designed to do. That's what our brain was designed to do. If you think about animals, if an animal does something that's painful, it's really hard to get that animal to do that thing again, because we're designed to avoid pain because pain is damaging to us. So what does this have to do with gaming? How does this pain circuitry and this learning circuitry, what does that have to do with gamers? And how does that lead to gamers being paralyzed? And this has to go, this goes back to a little bit about when we were talking about gaming suppressing negative emotions. So when you play a video game, there are fMRI studies. So an fMRI study is a study that looks at the activity of different parts of your brain. And so fMRI studies basically tell you when different parts of your brain are active. So fMRI studies that look at video game or show that when your amygdala is active, when you're suffering or experiencing pain or fear, if you start to play a video game, that video game calms down the amygdala. So the amygdala is no longer active. And you guys all have an experience of this. If you're having a bad day and you start to play a game, you start to feel better, right? That's just what happens. The game sort of makes you feel better, makes you feel less stressed out. It's a way to cope. You have some fun. And that's kind of what games are designed to do is to make you feel better. So the damning thing about that is that if you're suppressing your amygdala, you're also suppressing your amygdala's capability to access the hippocampus and teach you something. So if pain is a wonderful teacher and video games suppress the experience of pain or suffering, then that's a problem because you're actually not activating your learning circuitry. You're not activating your hippocampus. And that's why when gamers play a game, they know that they should stop. But the part of your brain that actually, how can I say this? The part of your brain that keeps you from touching the stove the second time around, that part of your brain is really strong because if I lit a stove and I told you guys to touch it, it would be basically impossible for you to do it. You could want to touch it as much as you want to, but there's a part of your brain that is never going to let you touch a hot stove because that's just crazy. There's no way that you would do it. And so if you think about it, the most fucked up thing about gaming is that part of your brain which teaches you lessons gets shut off when you play a video game. And so that's why you guys are so paralyzed. That's why you know every day when you wake up, you sit down and you play this video game and you're like, fuck, man, I shouldn't be playing this. I should be applying for a job or I should be studying for my test or I should be doing this or I should be doing that. You know there's this part of your rational mind that's telling you that you should not play games, that games are bad for you. But there's some kind of block, this gigantic barrier in some deeper part of your brain. And this is like your amygdala and your hippocampus. These are like the reptilian parts of your brain that lizards have that are blocking you from changing that behavior. And the reason they're blocking you is because gaming inhibits that learning circuitry by inhibiting those emotions. And when you inhibit those emotions, you inhibit the experience of pain. When you inhibit the pain, you no longer learn from that reinforcement. So this is something that you guys really need to understand. The reason that it's hard for you to stop gaming is not because you guys have low willpower. It's not because you're lazy. It's because there are parts of your brain that involve changing your behavior, which actually gets shut off when you play a video game. And the way that that happens is by, that's mediated through the experience of negative emotion. And when you quiet those negative emotions, you inhibit your learning circuitry. And so gaming is actually really paralyzing because it prevents you from learning. And that's why you all feel so paralyzed, because you know that you need to stop, but it's like there's this ogre inside you that won't let you stop playing video games. And that's because there's a part of your brain that's just not learning. It's not learning about the consequences of your actions. Even if you understand it up here, that reptilian brain is not letting you change your behavior. So you guys may ask, well, if this is the case, then am I just screwed? Because if I'm playing a game and it's not going to let me learn, am I just fucked? And the answer is actually no. There is a way forward. In the way forward, we're going to talk a little bit more about emotions. But the more that you're able to experience emotions, and the more that you're able to sort of activate that amygdala and tolerate that negative emotion, the more that you don't suppress those emotions, the more you'll start to learn and reactivate that learning circuitry. So in a weird way, the way to actually start to learn how to avoid gaming, I mean, how to avoid gaming, how to get control of your gaming, is by letting yourself tolerate some negative emotional states. And we'll talk a little bit more about that.