 Coming out soon, we're gonna be releasing Dr. K's guides to mental health. The guides are organized into three modules so the depression module is designed for people to understand like How depression works how I think about depression the anxiety module is for people who are Interested in learning more about anxiety like not just from a clinical perspective But also understanding from a mental perspective how anxiety works in the mind like where do anxious thoughts come from? How do they propagate things like that? You know something that I'm super excited about is also the meditation module So for those of you who are curious about understanding, you know my approach to meditation like what are the different it's there's a lot of theoretical understanding as well as You know 20 practices or more. So if you guys are interested in that, you know, go ahead and check out the guides So oh shit. Do I have to summarize now? Okay. What we're talking about is dopamine detox Okay, we're talking about like the actual neuroscience of a dopamine detox and we're about to dive into how to do it So let me give you guys a quick summary so we started off by looking at like You know other people who talk about dopamine detoxing on the internet and like really, you know I don't think there's a whole lot of good clinical or neuroscientific information there We went over to like what the dopamine reward circuits are what they look like and how messing with the dopaminergic parts of our brain creates a particular Presentation of like dopamine tolerance. Okay That presentation is characterized by three things So as a clinician the three things that I look for when I'm thinking about recommending a dopamine detox are number one You are compelled towards a behavior that you don't enjoy, okay number two There is a war in your brain between the things that you know, you should be doing and But you can't what you should do always loses to like this impulsive Like behavioral like fast food kind of enjoyment sort of thing So I should be working on my resume, but I'm just gonna queue for a game of Valorant or League or whatever Okay, third thing is that? Activities that seem pleasurable to other people don't seem to be as enjoyable to you so if you kind of check those three boxes and you have a Constant constant stream of like dopaminergic activity like video games or social media or reddit or whatever Then you may be right for a dopamine detox. Okay. Now we're gonna get to the actual okay. So dr. K. How do you dopamine detox? remember That the first thing is that what we want to do is give our brain a chance to down regulate the receptors So what we're talking about is probably a two-week minimum of dopamine detox Okay, otherwise your receptors aren't gonna Doubt like they're not gonna up regulate the way that they should That's the first thing the second thing to understand is that the main problem with the dopamine detox is boredom So I what I want you all to mentally prepare yourselves for is that the way that your dopamine circuitry is wired Things that should feel Pleasurable are not going to feel pleasurable. So what you're gonna deal with is two weeks of boredom. That's the raid boss Okay, it's not about like withdrawal It's not about like, you know sweats or like you're just gonna be bored So you need to be mentally prepared that what you're gonna be fighting against is boredom. Okay Next thing to consider is that what we want to really try to do is minimize our dopaminergic activity and what I mean by Dopaminergic activity. It doesn't mean that you actually can't have fun What I want you all to minimize is that compulsive behavior that you don't actually enjoy so video games social media Content aggregation so steer clear of like reddit YouTube things like that Some things that involve like technology are totally fine Like so for example, if you want to watch a movie even watch one movie every day, I think that's totally fine Time limited not like constant scrolling stuff time limited enjoyable activities Even involving technology are completely fine You want to steer clear the stuff that your brain veges out on so don't binge watch a TV show No, vijing vegging out while you're watching like Netflix or Amazon Prime or something like that. No binge watching anime You want to watch like a Naruto movie like go for it. It's not gonna be fun either way Whether your dopamine system is messed up or not Right, so you can actually watch like a movie like by all means go for it. No big deal So dopamine detox two weeks main thing that you're gonna have to deal with is boredom You want to cut out dopaminergic activities? So these are like the the the the dirty Like the McNuggets of dopamine that you do right so like content aggregation Like video games even stuff like twitch like discrete technological activities that are highly enjoyable and like a short limited time span are actually fine if you want to watch one movie a day go for it, okay So the other thing that I would recommend so like like the way that you're gonna do this successfully So since boredom is your enemy like planning out your day is gonna be a huge part of it. Okay books audiobooks doing stuff in nature cleaning cooking adopt Skills like like a skills learning program or something like that. Those kinds of things are gonna be your bastion So what I would say is like, you know on a let's say you want to start on the weekend So Friday evening what you're gonna do is grocery shopping and you're gonna plan out your meals for like Saturday and Sunday You're gonna plan out. Okay, like this is what I'm gonna do in the morning This is what I'm gonna do in the afternoon Get yourself like a good audiobook. Okay, so like good audiobooks are gonna be really really important for like relatively boring activities So while you're cleaning your kitchen like listen to an audiobook find a good podcast You want to be like doing stuff and the more that you pack your day the better off It's gonna be in terms of like, you know not relapsing because remember that when you relapse what's gonna happen is your mind is gonna be bored and before you realize it you're gonna Pick up your phone and you're just gonna be like on twitch or whatever or YouTube or whatever. Okay, so Social activities are also really good. So like I think board game night totally fine Like by all means get together with a few of your buddies Play some terraforming Mars like play D&D like go for it like a good six eight hour session of D&D With people ideally in person because you got to be careful about computers because it's really easy to open up tabs when you get Bored and things like that. So I'd steer clear of that but like it's totally fine to do fun activities I think if you want to do something like go camping like that's the perfect time to do a dopamine detox because you got to do things like pitching your tent and like, you know making your food and then like, you know, like Changing and like camping like has stuff involved. So spending time in nature going hiking. Those are fantastic opportunities to do dopamine detoxes So if you guys are doing something like going on a ski trip or going on vacation This is a good opportunity for you to like take stuff off of your phone, right? Like remove reddit from your phone remove all that stuff if you have something like a tablet by all means download like three movies over the course Of a week and that's like what you're gonna watch but you're not gonna like stream random crap Okay so next thing To remember is that unstructured time is the primary source of failure in dopamine detox Okay, when your mind is bored and you don't have something planned It's way too easy to like dig into the easy dopamine McNugget Alright the McDopamine So the next thing to kind of think about is that if you guys are running into trouble I recommend doing it with friends now, you don't have to do this necessarily with in-person friends but I'd find like two or three people like you know, maybe like sometimes people will like get together with people on discord and things like that where You know, you'll kind of decide. Okay, we're gonna do dopamine detox from you know, June 9th to June 20th okay or June 22nd, whatever and then people kind of plan out. Okay, what's your plan? Like let's let's like read a book together. Let's like, you know meet every day on discord Like we'll check in about how things are going like, you know, you guys can help each other out a little bit and Yeah, that's it so last kind of tip is remember the more accessible the dopaminergic activities are the Easier it is gonna be to relapse so what you want to do and this is kind of interesting so if you look at the research a Lot of relapses are not planned out. They're impulse decisions So if you look at alcohol relapses, for example, like I've been sober for a year I go to a kid's birthday party my kids like my kids friends birthday party My kids friends dad is there and he's like, hey, do you want to drink and it's like an impulsive decision? It's like sure everyone else is having a beer Like why can't I have a beer too? And then it's like boom relapse then I've had ten and I'm vomiting and whatever So what you want to do is increase the activation energy and make things less accessible So uninstall all the video games and then like at least you have that amount of time So let's say let I uninstall everything and then I like start reinstalling it when I relapse But then I've got like a 15 30 minute window where I can still like catch myself, right? I can get out of the house. I can go for a walk. I can even cancel the installation So you want to give yourself time and so like uninstall the crap uninstall the dopaminergic activities Log out of like your Netflix account like log out of your reddit account Like if you want to you can even use websites that block things like reddit and stuff like that go for it or tools And so that's kind of a dopamine detox So two weeks highly structured activity plan what you're gonna do cooking cleaning traveling nature books audio books Some kind of creative work if you want to learn a skill and kind of tell yourself, okay at the end of two weeks I could learn I could have learned how to xxx right like whatever you want to do XYZ I could have learned how to speak a hundred words of Spanish in two weeks And so work on those goals use people's help and like that's kind of how you do a dopamine detox