 How much do you think sleep schedule impacts mental health? Huge. So if you look at sleep, sleep is the one symptom that I think is impacted by every single mental health diagnosis for the most part, if I'm remembering that correctly. So I remember looking at sort of like each mental, it's the most common element, if not every single one, it is the most common, sleep disturbance is the symptom that is the most common across all mental illnesses. So the way that I understand that is like sleep is the time that your mind and brain use to like repair itself or heal. And so when your sleep is impaired, your healing function is impaired and so it propagates mental illness. Do you tell your patients to sleep? Generally speaking, that is not something I say to them. I don't say to them sleep. What I will do is ask them how their sleep is and I will try to help them sleep healthier. Because exactly like people are saying, just sleep doesn't work. So here's a couple of tips on sleep, three quick tips. First of all, if you wanna control your sleep schedule, it's not about bedtime, it's about waking up time. It is far easier, I'm not saying it's easier, it's far easier to wake up when you're tired than it is to go to sleep when you're not. So if you're trying to control your sleep schedule, you're in for 48 to 72 hours of rough wake up, okay? So I'd say that what you all should do is set an alarm, set it loud and set it outside of hand reach. Ideally like outside your door with the door open. So when it rings, you have to get up and physically get out of bed. Bonus points, if you can splash your face with a little bit of water, it'll help you wake up. By all means, if you guys drink caffeine, do that. Control your waking up in order to control your sleep. But I just go back. So that's where like, yeah, so you have to learn how to not do that, right? So notice that you just wanna go back. And then as you're going back to bed, ask yourself, do I want to fix my sleep schedule? If the answer to that question is yes, you can't, not do I want to, what matters to me more, fixing my sleep schedule or going back to bed now? Try to ask yourself that question. Second thought is screen time and blue light inhibit melatonin production. So ideally two hours before you try to fall asleep, you want no access to screens. So physiologically, it's gonna be easier to sleep because your melatonin will start pumping and then it'll like physiologically literally be easier to sleep. Third thing is a bedtime routine is very, very helpful for sleep. So you can train your body and your mind to fall asleep at a particular time, like in a very Pavlovian way. Two hours, but I'm addicted. Yeah, it's hard, dude, not gonna lie. So that's why there's a reason I started with number one first. Because if you're tired enough, despite, so what we wanna do, so getting a good sleep schedule is all about harnessing the power of fatigue. So that's what I recommend, especially to gamers. So we're not gonna like, we're gonna use fatigue as our gravity to fall asleep. So the more you can increase your fatigue, the easier it will be to get on a good sleep schedule. You can read a book, absolutely. You just don't want blue wavelength of light. So audio book is good, book is good. You know, exercise if you guys feel like it. Stretch, do yoga, all that stuff is fantastic. I think E Ink is actually okay, yawn. So it's funny that you guys mentioned this because like literally today I'm starting the process of resetting my sleep schedule. So I woke up this morning about three hours earlier than I usually do. So I'm resetting my sleep schedule as we speak. So now I'm already tired. I'm gonna be ready for bed in like four hours. I have, I've recently enrolled in school. Yes, that is correct.