 Okay, so let me explain what Aum chanting is. So chanting is like a really powerful meditation technique. You can chant different mantras to cultivate a different kind of spiritual energy. We're gonna actually do Aum chanting, so chanting of Aum. So Aum is actually composed of three syllables, A, U, and M. So we start out going A-A-A-A-A-A-U-M. A-A-A-A-A-U-M. So we do take a big deep breath. We start out with a mouth that's completely open. A-A-A-A-A-U-M. Okay, and we go to completely closed. So when we chant we do a couple of different things. One is that there's a certain breathing component to it, which I'm sure has a physiology to it. But what we really want to do is project out that energy. We want to like energize. Okay, so we're gonna be loud. The other thing to remember about chanting is chanting is not about sound. It's about energy and vibration. So what I want you to pay attention to is not what you hear, but what you feel with each of the syllables of the Aum chant. So what it'll be is like A-A-U-M. There'll be a period of silence. We'll take a deep breath again. We'll do another round. So we'll do seven rounds of Aum chanting. And then we'll be silent for about 60 to 90 seconds, maybe two minutes, five minutes. I don't know. Just depends on how I feel. Okay? All right, so I want everyone to sit up straight. Back straight is very important. Okay, just take a few calming breaths. All right, now we're gonna begin. So I'm gonna take a deep breath in. Again, deep breath in. A-U-M Again. A-U-M Again. A-U-M Again. A-U-M Two more. Make them count. Lot of energy. Big deep breath. A-U-M Maximize vibration. Big deep breath. A-U-M And just feel with your eyes closed. A-U-M Okay. So in the quiet space afterward, I want you to just feel the person that you are. Whatever is there, let it come out. If it's sadness, if you feel stressed. If you feel good, great. If you feel energetic, wonderful. But if not, just let that come out. So if we think about what vibration does, vibration facilitates movement. If I've got something stuck, I shake it. It starts moving again. So whatever needs to come out will come out. Watch it with awareness. Breathe it in. Breathe it out. And just let it come out. And just let it come out. Whatever needs to come out will come out. Watch it with awareness. Breathe it in. Breathe it out. And just do it. Seven breaths. Nine breaths. Increase the power of the vibration. Increase the energy of it. Learn to take bigger, deeper breaths with practice. And more and more stuff will come out. So much anxiety, but yeah, we gotta let it out, man. That's the problem, is that right now it is inside you. So let it out. And then you'll be anxiety free. Don't keep anxiety inside. Let it out. If you just want to cry, then cry. Let it out. The tears are there. If you hold on to them, they'll stay there. If you let them out, they'll go. And so if you want to understand what enlightenment is, as you chant, as you meditate, what you think you are continues to come out. Oh, I'm ashamed. I deserve to cry. I'm anxious. I'm worried. That comes out, you let it go. And you let it go. And you let it go. Whatever is there, let it up. Joy even comes up, let it go. Let everything within you up and out. And when you are completely empty on the inside, when you are shunya, then you will attain moksha, enlightenment. Alright, chat. Thank you very much for coming today. I wish you all the best.