 like to talk to Dr. K about executive dysfunction and how to conquer it, as it has been the most crippling effect caused by my mental illness and has essentially made life progress near impossible in many respects. And yet this is a topic that seems to go often untalked about in any sort of detail, especially in any sort of solutionary respect. I've even struggled to get my therapist to talk about it with me. Perhaps that is because I have also found that those who don't deal with this issue have an especially difficult time understanding it as well. It is hard for them to grasp the idea of feeling like you are literally unable to force yourself to take an action. And I get it because I deal with it every day. And I still find it hard to understand how it can be this way. I too often wonder why can't I just do it like everybody else. From my point of view, it is bad enough having to battle my mind, but it is torturous not being able to hardly ever just get myself to do some sort of work or even a fun hobby to help myself through it on top of that. And it is very hard for me to find purpose in myself or work on other parts of my life and mental health as well when I can't actually manage to hardly get myself to do simple or even fun tasks, let alone those more important purposeful ones. So basically, it feels like I am constantly stuck in a solitary prison and given nothing to do other than sit and look out through the bars to see all the things that I enjoy and want, need to take part in, but can't. This is a great question. So the first question is what is executive dysfunction? We have a part of our brain called the frontal lobes, which plan and execute tasks. So what this means is that the example that we are going to use to explain executive dysfunction is I have a three-year-old and I have a five-year-old. If I tell my five-year-old to clean up the room, she can do it. If I tell my three-year-old to clean up the room, she is going to feel like she just can't do it. So then what I have to do is I have to tell my three-year-old, okay, let's put the books away. And the three-year-old can do that. I can tell her, let's put the toys away. She can do that. Let's put the stuffed animals away. She can do that. She can put the iPad away. She can put the controller away. She can put her bowl away. But she needs me to structure those tasks together to reach an abstract goal. So executive function is the ability to plan and execute tasks. So if I think about something like finding a job, that requires a lot of executive function. So it requires me to think about, what are the steps involved and execute on those tasks? So the first thing to understand about executive function is that it improves with age. And your executive function reaches its full potential. It's somewhere between the ages of 30 and 32. And this has to do with frontal lobe development. So the first issue for this person is depending on how old you are, things may get better for you as you get older. I'm not saying that it's sufficient now. You can't really bank on that. If you're a high school student with poor executive function, you can't wait until you're 30 to do high school. So that's the first thing, just to reassure you guys that you will get better at this over time until the age of 30 to 32. The second thing that I found is that executive function tends to get negatively impacted by playing video games. I know it sounds kind of weird, but if you spend a lot of time playing video games, what video games essentially do is do the executive function for you. I know it sounds weird, but think about this. So I've been playing Genshin Impact recently. So the game sort of tells me what I need to do. If you play World of Warcraft or Genshin Impact or whatever, I don't have to plan out. I mean, sort of people do in Genshin Impact, but if you play a particular video game, the game tells you, okay, the next step you need to do is this. The next step you need to do is this. The next step you need to do is this. Like if I take FF7, for example, like FF7 doesn't start off in the first 10 minutes and say, hey, beat Sephiroth. And then you have to construct how to get from where you are to like beat Sephiroth at the end. Sure, you know he's the bad guy and you know he's the end goal, but video games give you the steps. Okay. So the problem that people with executive function have or dysfunction have is that they don't, they're not, their brains are not able to plan out and execute each step of the task. So if we think about like, you know, planning and execution, what someone with a good executive function can do is like plan out the steps. They understand that, okay, if I need to clean my room, these are the six things that need to happen. So what people with executive function experience is paralysis around goals. So what that means is like they know, like the three-year-old theoretically knows what a clean room looks like. And if I ask her like what in the room looks dirty, she can tell me that. So what's really frustrating about people with executive dysfunction is that they have insight into their dysfunction. But what's incredibly frustrating about this is that despite the insight, it doesn't actually change your brain and allow your brain to actually do it. So you like the three-year-old can understand what a clean room looks like, can understand that her room is dirty, but that abstract level understanding is not the same as the frontal lobes being able to chunk down that task. So really what executive function is, is the ability to take one task and like chunk it into pieces. So when I plan and execute, like here's find a job or clean a room. And it's being able to like, this process is what's messed up with executive dysfunction. And understanding it, insight into it is not the same. It's the ability to like think through what to do. So another example is like, you know, sometimes we'll have like, let's say like you're having, you're hosting a party. So people who have like, people who are event planners have really good executive dysfunction. So like they like plan out this big task of going, let's throw a wedding. This has to get done, this has to get done, this has to get done, this has to get done. So they're very good, like very organized. So the problem with executive dysfunction is that we aren't able to like figure out how to chunk up a task and execute on it. And it feels incredibly paralyzing because our brain is literally not able to do this. So if we think about how, you know, how do you start on a task that's too big? You can't. So this is why people fear feel paralyzed because if the task is too big, you literally cannot do it. Like I can't, like if I were to tell you, you know, win a Nobel Prize, like how do you even start with that? Like that's crazy. Like you may be able to theoretically map out what needs to be done, but you can't actually break it apart into like its subsequent pieces and actually execute on it. So then the question is what to do about executive function, about executive dysfunction actually. And this is where there are a couple of things to recognize. So when people have paralysis and executive dysfunction, there are a couple of different components. So when you're paralyzed towards a behavior, there are three things that I'd like to talk about. The first is operationalize. So what this means is like there's actually a formal process that you can get trained in to do this. So this is what we call operationalizing problems. In gamer terminology, so like back when we did a lot of work with gamers, I know we still do a lot of work with gamers, but I used to do a lot of work specifically around video game addiction. And what I would teach people is how to change an open-ended problem. So this is something like win Nobel Prize or find a job into a closed-ended problem. So what that means is to essentially go through the process of converting an abstract thing into like a discrete quest goal. So like forget about the quest chain, we're going to like, because we can't map out the quest chain. So, actually what we're going to do is we're going to take a goal and we're going to map it onto what we call a quest chain. And then the quest chain will have discrete pieces. So this is called operationalizing problems, which gamers are bad at. The really interesting thing is that gamers are actually better than the average population at this piece. So if you give a gamer a very discrete task and you give them an end goal and you give them all the pieces, they will actually outperform regular people when it comes to doing that task. So this is a real scenario. I was taking a class at Harvard Business School and in the class at Harvard Business School, we were given a case and we were told to solve this problem about how to optimize flow through a urology clinic. Literally, I was swamped at the time. So I logged onto Discord and I was like, hey, do you guys want to help me with this? And I just uploaded this Harvard Business School case to a group of my degenerate gamer friends. And the next day they came up with four or five solutions. I went into class two days later, I had the solutions from my gamer buddies, and they're like, what do you do? And I was like, hey, this is what I'm going to do. And the professor was like, that's brilliant. No understanding of medicine, no understanding of MBA stuff, no understanding of any of that crap. If you give them a close-ended task and give them the parameters, gamers are good at this. Gamers are bad at this. So if you have a problem with executive dysfunction, the first thing that you need to do is learn how to turn this into this. So that's called operationalizing problems. There's actually an exercise that we share in Dr. K's guide. So we talk a lot about this in Dr. K's guide, but I'll share the exercise with you now. So this is what I tell people who have executive dysfunction, like as a therapist, what I'll say is pretend you are paralyzed from the neck down and pretend you have a servant who will do exactly what you tell them to do. How would you tell them to accomplish this task? So in the terms of finding a job, it's like you're paralyzed. You literally have to tell them, go to my computer, log in, open a web browser, do a Google search for jobs available in Washington, DC. What do you see there? Okay, then do this, then do this, then do this. And what I find with people who have executive dysfunction is that when you really work them through that process, they will actually be able to execute on tasks. So the first thing is operationalizing problems. Second problem with executive dysfunction is frustration in emotions. A lot of people with executive dysfunction also have ADHD or the other way around. So people with ADHD have trouble with executive function. So this is the really interesting thing is that I find that when you're paralyzed towards behavior, there's like a practical component to it. But there's also this component of feeling so damn dumb and feeling so damn incompetent and frustrated with yourself that it actually negatively impacts your behavior. Because if we think about what promotes behavior, right? So it's not frustration and negative emotion. It's inspiration and confidence. So what people with executive dysfunction literally have to do in order to improve their dysfunction is digest these emotions. So we'll do therapy around this. We'll do therapy around this. So we'll do therapy around this. Because anytime you're thinking about taking a behavior, right? Like, so if I have an idea, and then I want to take an action, what goes in here? What is this composed of? It's composed of operationalizing. And then there's going to be like, there's going to be good emotions. And there's going to be bad emotions, right? So there's like a war between my good emotions and my bad emotions in terms of whether I take the action or not. If I think I'm going to fail, if like, you know, if I think I'm good at it, like if I feel confident, then I'll take the action. So that those are a couple of pieces that go into it. Okay. So we're paralyzed towards a behavior, we have to learn how to operationalize, we have to learn how to like deal with our negative emotions and frustration. I think generally speaking, I just do two things with them. So we tend to get to processing their negative emotions, and then we operationalize problems. And we use that exercise. And that tends to be actually like the way that you deal with executive dysfunction. And the third thing to remember is that over time, you will actually improve. Okay. Yeah, so people are talking about meditation. Absolutely. So you can also do meditation. Right? So that's good. Thank you, chat. See, chat is learning. So if we talk about strengthening your frontal lobes, meditation actually strengthens your MPFC, your medial prefrontal cortex, which is going to be like a big part of what we want to talk about when it comes to operationalizing problems. I think another thing that we want to talk a little bit about is you have to be careful about the thoughts that keep you from starting. So this is also like another cognitive skill that you can learn. So anytime someone has this is related to the emotions. But if you think about problems with operationalizing, this is where the what ifs happen. Right? We were talking about the what ifs earlier. What if, you know, so there are a lot of thoughts that keep you from starting. This kind of has to do a little bit with like procrastination. So sometimes like, perfection can actually keep you paralyzed as well. Like you want to do it perfect. You don't want to get a B. So you're not even going to try for until you're sure you can get an A, you're not even going to you'd rather have an F than a 10% or 90% chance for an A. Right? You want a 100% chance of an A or an F. So this is where there are particular like psychological complexes or cognitive things which you can actually work on. These are almost like some scars. So we talk about a couple of these in Dr. K's guides. I'll try to, you know, map more stuff out. But when it comes to solving executive dysfunction, it gets better with time, you have to learn how to operationalize, which you can practically do, deal with the negative emotions that keep you from acting. You can absolutely meditate. And then the fourth thing is that, you know, there are particular thoughts, there are particular other challenges that arise, which have specific solutions to them. Questions about executive function. Does it degrade after the age of 32? Not really. Is it different from motivational issues? No. So here's the problem. There's no Sanskrit word for motivation. So motivation, I think, is one of the worst words in the English language because it lumps together all of these disparate processes under like one term. It's like, and so the problem, like if you look at like solutions to motivation, like if you do a Google search for like solutions to motivation, you will find a million websites with a bunch of people who will sell you their product for like how to get more motivated. And we are guilty of that too. The problem is like, if there are all these solutions to motivation, like why isn't everyone super motivated? None of them work. Why don't they work? Because it's a problem of misdiagnosis. Motivational problems could be ADHD, it could be executive dysfunction, it could be trauma. It could be like a lack of clarity of goal. It could be that you're not motivated because it's something you should do instead of something that you care about. There are all kinds of like nuances to motivation. It's actually a bunch of different neuroscientific, psychological, and spiritual problems. And the way that I help motivate people is because like I don't call it motivation. It's like what's your actual problem? So you could look at someone with executive dysfunction. You could say this person has a problem with motivation, but they're absolutely, they can't act when they want to act, right? That's what motivation is. But if you look at it like their actual problem is not a lack of motivation, that's a symptom. Their problem is executive dysfunction. And so in that way, a lack of motivation has a differential diagnosis that includes a lot of different things. you