 No, so here's the thing if you if the reason you feel amazing right now is because your twitch career is going well because Everything is going well. You just bought a car You're gonna buy a house like like if everything if your happiness is tied to the outside world and what the fates give you Then it's tied to what the fates give you Hello. Hey How are you? Good, how are you? Okay Okay, can you okay? Yep Good Yeah, I see here. I'm gonna stand up. No sitting is fine. I've just never seen this angle before that's so interesting man Yeah, I cook I cook amazing food on stream and they're gonna see the whole thing. Oh interesting What's what are some of your specialties? I've just started but I just cop I just follow this app but yeah, it's good. It's good It's just I just want to say as well. It's the first time talking to you. I just want to say I love the girl I love the the interview did of wreck talk about wreckful and I won't lie I was Crying like a can I swear? Can I say bitch? I think so Okay, I was crying like Like a bitch because it was just it hit me hard and I just want it's just so surreal talking to you But yeah, thank you for having me on. Yeah, of course man. Thanks for coming on man. Appreciate it I'm gonna bring a full screen. Give me a second. Sure Okay Okay Yeah, so tell me what what was it that sort of affected you with the interview with wreckful? This is so weird I watched when he passed away I watched the whole interview the one on YouTube and then you went live an hour later Talking about it just the words you speak just hits hard you start talking about get up and fight Because I've been living in anxiety and depression for like for the past three years So when you start talking like if you've got problems get up get asked for help or you spoke to me That's when I started streaming properly in July So yeah, just want to say never change keep doing what you're doing I said sort of time you're one of the streamers out there that actually are here to help your viewers and that's so rare So well done. Thanks. Thank you. I'm glad it was helpful. You know, it was I think it was painful for all of us right, but sometimes pain can bring us closer together and It's kind of better sweet but can help us move forward right And so what you said you've been struggling with depression and anxiety for three years Mostly anxiety for the past three years. Yeah. Oh my god. So sounds yeah. Yeah Yeah, well, shall I give you the short story? Sure Okay, so pretty much and my viewers hate hearing this because I'm like a broken record I try not to go back ever but about I've been streaming on and off for seven years back in 2015 I my partner we split up and I streamed every day in 2015 in 2016 in April 2016 I got permanently banned on Twitch because I used to get like 10,000 viewers, but I used I was a horrible person right, I used to just be so toxic and I I got myself probably bad by a By just slaughtering someone's name, right? I got permanently banned the day that happened Oh, I I was scared to talk to about anything to anyone I've become this I just become so scared to even speak and I've just kind of it took me years I've just got over it. I've just got over it now. I'm like I just don't give a fuck anymore. Shouldn't swear. Sorry, but I just don't care anymore Talk say and I feel ten times better and so yeah anxiety You know, but I was just so scared to talk like on Twitch. I was scared to say anything I was scared to swear. I was so scared to even do anything, but I'm over it now and life's great. Life's perfect I'm just a bit annoyed with today because my daughter I was meant to stream today I have a daughter right and she was meant to go to school But her temperature was 38 so the school wouldn't allow room because of this corona virus So I couldn't stream today and I'm a bit my friends here now looking after her she's fine now, she's fine Oh here. Oh great. Here she is. Hello. Hi. Hi. Yes. Yes. What do you want? Yes. Yes, you're gonna go next door She's for five three nearly three. Oh, I tell you what she can't speak So if you want to come over to my house in real life and give some lessons that that'd be great We're getting all the help she can trust me. She's got all the help she can get she just can't speak Interesting yeah, you know, it's a funny thing Sometimes kids that are super super smart actually don't they learn to speak slower because they actually can communicate without speaking right, they're sort of like You know, it's interesting yeah, that's what they say they said she keep it all in all the information to herself She's not expressing herself. So But yeah, we're really close and with me and a mom we split up half a year ago And we got a 50-50 so I take it for one week then a month takes for one week I'll have it for one week month. You got me. Yeah, that's it. Yeah Sounds like she has she's having fun with daddy at home Well, actually she's addicted to this pad and I can't get her off it But is it a bad thing this is these pads for kids are they you know, the iPads is it bad thing? So I think the the trickiest thing is actually the whether it's long form or short form content So generally speaking we want to be careful with kids that Can like essentially switch things very quickly or things that have commercials or like short video clips because that sort of reinforces a short attention span Whereas electronics that are more long form like if you if they watch like a whole episode of something That's actually I think better for their attention then you know things that are sort of like pop-ups and like Over here so as long as it's long form, I think it's it's okay But the short answer yeah, yeah She always goes up to my PC and turns it off. Yeah, I know what you mean. Oh, it's a biscuit. I'm listening doctor Yeah, that's fine. Take take care of your kid man. What's her name? If you don't mind me ask it. It's Ellie and What's your name? Ali Your name is Ali. Yeah. Well, my dad's Turkish. All right So it's meant to be pronounced Ali, but I can't speak Turkish doc. Okay, and I like to I'm pretty nervous But as the interview goes on I'll calm down my nerves are really high, but I'm coming down But yeah, her name's Ellie a lot of people think fingers cringe But I named her after that girl win the last of us, you know, Ellie because I first played I had played it but I Talk yeah, you should yeah when I first played that game I was like, oh if I have a kid a girl's I wanted to be like Ellie in the last of us So yeah, that's it. That's okay my cringe. But honestly, she's cute as hell. Yeah. Yeah, she's she's amazing She looks but you know this by the way, like, you know the anxiety like you do know the anxieties depression's best friend Right if you guys if songs anxiety the pressure is gonna be right next door to it. You know that right? Yeah, great So yeah So it was only when my partner left me half a year ago and I don't get like telling my life story But she left me half a year ago because pretty much we won't going anywhere in the relationship Right it when she left I pulled up my socks. I was like, I'm gonna be a dad I'm gonna start doing everything she does and I was like I'm gonna start streaming Because I haven't streamed in three to four years because I had this really cute trolley community and they scared the shit out of me Like they were my community still to this day. They scared me. They say things to me. They know where I've been I'm convinced they I'm convinced these guys track in my car. They got a device to track my car They know everything about me. They know where I've been which they are can't hide nothing Right your community now. Yeah, but I mean I'm not the more you show. I'm the more I show to them I'm scared the more they might mess around me now. They don't surprise me, you know, but it's just people in general They love to freak me out and that would normally give me anxiety But now I just kind of laugh of it that I brought like a new car, right? Like two months ago a Jaguar, right and I was hiding the number plate I didn't know what to do the number plate because if you have a source number plate you can find out the details off the car How comes I went on stream the next day and they're all starting the number plate How how do they know that doc, you know, so that's why I know man Yeah, people are the people are smart and I said to them all ordered people my committee They should work for the FBI because they're too smart, you know, but yeah, but for the fast past for years I've been scared of them that they would terrify me But now I just smile and I go CCTV whatever, you know, it's one of them things. What what is scary about that? well, they know my address right and I'm pretty much I've been doc. I've been trolled so hard. I've been trolled so hard now you couldn't even I know you I could Yeah, I couldn't even begin. It's you could I've had you want me to go into detail. Sure Okay, I've had some okay. So the first thing is unpaid food, right? So you got your address Thank you. What's the unpaid food? That's that's easy mode I've had I've had I've had someone on my door opening cracking the lock and I'm like, what are you doing? And they're like, oh we got a phone call that you were locked in your bathroom So they get we've got put locksmiths to my door I have people come to my door with snakes like snakes snakes like oh you ordered some snakes I'm like nah, I did not order snakes. I've had sad things happen I've had children come with bags of toys because someone's placed an advert saying I need toys So these poor children bringing bags of toys to me. I won't lie to you the most people find this funny But I've had hookers Legit hookers sent to my address and they're all like with a pimp I've had that and it's been terrifying, you know And like people like my reactions, they find it hilarious So not you know, I get stuff sent to you all the time Wow I see the funny side but there are some bad sides to it But the best thing to do is I don't I just kind of laugh it all now the more that I get scared of it The more that I'm gonna play on myself and get anxious and then depressed so I just kind of like take it I always have my best friend. He works for me now. So he makes sure the streams always go smooth So that's a new thing we did, you know that girl Anita She's got a problem with some guy stalking her What she should do is should you get someone pay someone to make sure that no one's gonna security pay for security Every time I'm getting someone outside to think about it, right? But yeah that matches the beginning I could tell you a hundred things you'd probably end up laughing but yeah Oh good now Ali, what did you want to was there something in particular that you wanted to focus on today? I'd love you know I'm happy to hear I'm more happy to be on you. I'm more happy to talk to you and just so I was told So so you said that you got permabandoned in 2016. So you started streaming again Are you streaming on a different platform? Are you back on twitch? No, I'm back on to stay Let me back in July of 2017. Okay, it was a year and a half won't lie to Being banned on twitch. It's the worst thing in the world It's it's the argue it's like a party you don't invite it to and no one to do business with you No stream wants to know you everyone will follow you people to see it's bad business and it was the worst year and half of my life On YouTube, oh I duck no one knows I wish people could just feel the feeling how I felt then I want to kill myself. I Legit got what's it called again when you get when you're harmed yourself and you get restrained by the police in the hospital Wait, they you're a danger to yourself. What's the word for it, Ryan? There's a word for it, you know, what's it called? It's a section section cisco section. All right the day I got banned on twitch, you know I made a video got millions like two million views on YouTube But I legit was gonna go kill myself and now I got took by the police there and then and I was put into like a hospital because I was I was like, yep I've got no point of living and that was it and then it took that year and a half. I just spent money I didn't stream I legit kind of streamed and I just spent money And I just spent my money and then after a year and a half twitch I appealed I I did I did change But I didn't have to change I just had to tone it down a bit So instead of chat, I changed too much. I lost my fan base I lost them all I look cuz I went from crazy open book character to this riddled anxious Boring sheep of a guy and no one found me interesting twitch let me back It's only been recently well one I'm becoming the doubt me but without them without the negative young sure Yeah, so it sounds like you found balance Yeah, yeah, you know starting to to be your true self and be kind of entertaining and fun to watch and at the same time Not overboard. That's right. Cuz back then I was a small streamer So I was doing anything to get attention But then I've become a big streamer and the spotlight was on me and I was still would say into anything for attention So I was a very I would call all the shout casters names all the time I'm talking horrible names like the older women are cool and I'm not proud of it like poor and stuff So why do you why do you think you would do anything for attention? Oh I I already I knew this was coming because I keep gonna start asking me why I'm the biggest attention seeker in the world Doc and I could explain why I've already asked myself these questions Okay My daughter's a mute right she can't speak she don't talk right I was the exact same as a child I was so from the ages of 0 to 10 of primary school, which is your like you Americans call it different What do you call primary school? So if I'm zero to tell elementary elementary, right? You're a mentor school I had no friends. I was bullied. My mom was sleeping around other guys and I didn't have my dad was never there He still isn't really there. He smokes a lot of marijuana, right? So as a kid, I had seven sisters no brothers and my mom never knew how to interact with me Right because she only knew girls, right? So when I growing up, I couldn't talk to anyone when I'm at school We were moving from school to school because my mom was trying to get with a right guy, right? To provide and I had no friends in school and I was so quiet I got picked on I got picked on a lot, right? When I Was 11 and I moved into the secondary school, which you would call high school. I was so smart I thought to myself, okay new school. No one knows me. I'm just going to Pretend I'm this really loud guy because it that that's the guy I want to be so that change I remember exactly where I was. I was on my bed thinking of the day before the school started I wanted to be this guy So secretary school started the first day and all these kids don't know me and we're in class and The teacher was like, okay guys, I'm gonna teach and I was like fuck you miss and everyone laughed And I laughed and I was like, huh? This is great this attention Wow and the teacher get outside now I felt amazed. I was like Yeah, like that feeling like that and I love the attention and still to this day I like the attention and it's like that's why I you know I'll be honest with you I say and do a lot of stuff for attention because I'm trying to catch up on the 10 years that I missed And that's it doc. So that's like that. Yeah. Yeah So Do you think you're gonna catch up Oh Good question God I don't know. I'm not thinking about it too much, but I Don't know, you know a good question. I'm gonna catch up. I don't know doc. I don't we have to see Yeah, I mean Yes, I mean I'm getting in future. Yeah, I'm listening. That's yeah It looks like she wants some attention from dad yeah There's been yeah, she's a daddy's girl There's been some trouble with Oh, that's the off part definitely don't press that God Yeah, no, there's been shows going for it. Yeah. No, I'll make sure she doesn't okay Yeah, no, there's been some she's more the daddy's girl than mom, but it's Yeah, there's trouble with I got pretty much I don't get a too much detail because It's a bit private but I had a I was reported to the social services Do you have that in America? Yeah, right great. So someone I don't know who reported me to the social services And I was a toxic abusive dad, you know, and they got to take all the reports seriously and they've been involved for the past half a year and she gives me such she she's such a daddy's girl and Her mom they it's Say she don't treat her mom the same way so they're looking at like she's a villain Yeah, you understand they're looking at her your Her mom her mom is a villain. Yeah, because she she's so daddy's girl if I was to go to her school She's ecstatic when she sees me when she sees her mom. She's like, oh, it's mom But the social services are like, oh is there something going on here? Like why is she so different and they were telling me she can't express herself So it's a bull up in the air right now and they're really trying to make her speak because she can't speak right now So if something is going on, we don't know. Do you know so I'm in a bit of a even right now She just came down the other day. There's another meeting next Tuesday tomorrow So it's all interesting when it's all just drama gosh, but how do you how do you handle that? How do you mean I can't worry about too much because I've got a lot to live I've got provide I've got a stream so I I could spend all because my ex Partner she's been dating this guy for seven months and he's I'm sorry to say he's not a nice guy He at all, right and the first and I'm not trying to say, you know when I want her to give a nice guy But I mean the first conversation I got of this guy was him saying it it was gonna You know set my car fire put me in it, you know He's nuts, but she likes him and I'm happy for him to like him, but I can't live my life worrying When she's with our mom, I can't live my life like that Because let me tell you something smoke is bad for you eating unhealthy foods bad for you But let me tell what's really bad for you worry and why I can worry you can legit worry yourself to death You know that doc. Yeah Right. So pretty much why worry I thought I look after when she's with me when she's with a mom I got my best not to worry. Yeah, how do you do that? though Well, I just think to myself I'm even gonna spend the rest of my life until she's 18 worrying or I just got to get on with it and I'd be happy And get on with the work so I can provide for her because Alan so so I was under the impression you had wanted to talk about sort of moving on Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Can you tell me a little bit about that? Okay, so I've been on a lot of offer this girl for ten years and and Then about yes seven months ago. She wanted to she well, she just met this guy. Oh, she met this guy and she's with him now and I hated her for for like four to five months and I oh I couldn't message her and You know the school was like you gotta try and make things right and be funny to her I couldn't find him. I was just so toxic to her I just hated how she just left me and now I only see my daughter half time But about two months ago something happened I woke up one day and there was no hate there was nothing it was just Civil and I was like, oh and that's when you know, you're over someone isn't it because you don't hate them And you don't love them. You don't miss them or hate them. There's nothing it's just oh, oh, okay So now we're cool. We're fine and I'm happy for her to be with any guy and that's it So I've been happy for the past couple of months I get like I bought her a PC for three thousand pounds when she's when she left she was trying to take the PC I was like, hold up. We're not married. I thought if you want that PC It's gonna cost you 1300 pounds, right? And that was a great price and then she didn't want it. I said, okay but then we made up and I was like, you know what take it for 800 pounds, which is an amazing price if you sort of Specs of this thing and I don't mind giving her like I just want it gone I just want her to have it or I'm trying to do her favors because that's when you know over someone Hold grudges, you know, so I could promise you I'm over this scale but it is the Mother of my child so I'm always gonna have a connection with her. I'm always gonna love I'm always gonna I'm really weird every girl I've ever been with I wish them all well. I wanted to do well, you know I don't hate any of them. I don't hate anybody because hate For me hate is like when you hate someone it's like Why when you hate someone it's like a pressure you gotta look over your shoulders for all your life You know, so yeah, but it took time it took time It took about five to six months of getting there, but it got there in the end and I'm there's nothing now It's I'm happy with her. So it's I mean it sounds like you sort of sorted that out Yeah, I Don't know what happened. I just said to Ryan who's my best friend I said I just woke up one day and there was no hate and that's when you know, you're ever so there was nothing I couldn't I didn't I thought I had to think to myself. What was the last time I thought about that girl? Oh three days ago Do you know how does that work? What time here was everything you know? Or am I wrong? I Don't know man Yes, I think it's that's kind of depends on on What you say, right? I mean, I think it's quite remarkable that you know You were filled with so much hate and then one day you wake up and it's gone. I just Exactly. Exactly. I Don't know what happened doc It sort of makes sense I think I can understand why you would make up for lost time in terms of not speaking because It seems like sometimes you wake up and and your feelings just sort of sort themselves out right Interesting time. Yeah Everybody everyone's different right? So when it comes to me getting over that girl I just it might be different for someone else, but that's how I got over it time. Hmm Why is that? Is that the wrong answer? Because you're looking at me like no, it's not the wrong answer I I Ali I don't I don't have the right answers. I'm just curious because you know a lot of times when we talk Yeah, yeah, go ahead When I got banned on twitch in 2016 because I've always had breakdowns. I'd always be emotional. I'm either I'm ecstatically emotional so I went and got I went into a psychiatrist and And then I went and saw so I went to a psychiatrist and within two hours of psych Diagnosing me it's just obviously private it cost me 250 pounds an hour Which is like 320 bucks an hour in that two-hour period she diagnosed me with bipolar, right? so there's that and my nan was also bipolar and Pretty much. Let me say this they put me on mood stabilizers, right? Calm the mood so I'd have taken before I slept but then they were like, okay after you take the mood stabilizers we're gonna put you on a So called lithium, right? So I was like, okay. No like a lithium you gotta take for the rest of your life Okay, I was like, okay sure. Let's do this. So they write me a they got they got the right prescription to be the hand in to the Beyond the till to get this lithium so I take it there and they turn around and go Oh, the doctors forgot the sign it you have to go take it back and I know at that point and I thought it's out I thought it sound like Superstitious or anything like that? I'm not Christian I believe there was a force out there in life where that wasn't meant to be Do you understand what I'm trying to say doc? So I didn't she didn't sign it. I was like, no, it's no No, this is happening for a reason. I'm not I'm not gonna be on this lithium because that drug is like That I've been told that truck is a strong drug that is like Don't touch that button and that drug is like dangerous and you're gonna be on it for life and it'll calm you right down I think I give it like people that what they will consider what crazy I know people get offended by that word crazy, but that lithium drug you should know it's like don't mix of that That's some dangerous stuff, you know Yeah can't be Right. So I let you know I was watching wreck falls. You did it if you break forward. He's bipolar to not I'm not saying to as in Oh, he's bipolar to I'm saying I pull a type two right type two bipolar, right? I'm not type two I'm just that but I get days doc. Well, I'm like, oh no, my viewers make fun of me Oh, you're bipolar. You're bipolar and I'm like guys guys guys. I'm not I'm not and then the next time I bloody I am I am and then on stream and I'm happy I'm wonderful. It's great in the next minute I'm set they beat me with the donations They roast me that's what streams are me cooking me getting roasted pretty much and then I get so sad and so down and it's just Like the moods are like this, you know, so I every day it goes bump again. Okay, I think I am here I think I am but you know, everyone's different your own ways So Ali, you know just a couple of thoughts one is does your mood fluctuate like rapidly throughout days Are we talking like you'll be? It's very red I get depressed by the way, cuz I don't have a bad diet. It's very red I get depressed. I can't really last time I was depressed like depressed. I can't remember I don't think there's been a day. Well, I mean my life's been down. So I won't lie to you the past Since July where I start streaming again My life's been perfect Legit perfect and we're moving house We're buying our first house and we bought that my dream car because my viewers and it's like there's nothing else really That I want our life. I'm single. I'm gonna stay single by the way forever I mean that I don't think I'm ever gonna get married and I know we're going off onto a different conversation But I mean, I'm so happy and content. I Don't relationships hurt, you know, but I know it's this shows about moving on but I'm getting to a point where Relationships I feel like we're changing doc and we can talk about that in a minute if you want But um, as my moods do my moods fluctuate a lot. I'm I'm I'm I Don't know you'd have to watch my thoughts. I don't know. I've never thought about it. Okay Yeah, tell me what you mentioned something about so it sounds like you've gotten things figured out Right, right, right. So when you are asked with the show, I was like, okay, I'm in good form. I'm not like Ethics of life is perfect. So when you were like we're talking about getting over relationships. Okay, I'm over the relationship Yeah, so so tell me what this so now that you have things figured out you said you don't want to get married No, nothing. Okay, right now just hear me here because some people might be watching the old-fashioned Let me just hear me out and don't laugh because this place 60 years ago 70 years ago, right if you were to want to sleep with someone you have to marry him, right? Okay, and then times changed and then in order to sleep with someone you had to be with them now It's down age. No one cares everybody seems if anybody and no one gives a shit, right? You got all these rappers bragging about in their songs The the men and the women and I feel like we're in a generation now where people are doing open relationships People are just happy being free all the time. No one has the time for relationships and the past half year I've been dating women I never get with them and I turn that from the start and we just enjoy our moments together You know, I think relationships and this is just my opinion. I don't want anyone get offended, right? I think relationships are dying out I just think people want to relationships and because we don't have the time for it You can still spend time someone have a good time don't need to label it You know, I just don't feel and that's a marriage marriage. Wow. I just think that's so old-fashioned I don't think I'm ever gonna get married doc. I just thought you know, because when you're free and there's no label on it It's lovely. Well, you know, there's there's science scientists say that us human beings are Born to be with each other forever. I only dolphins are is that a true factor? Am I reading fake news? Yeah, I mean I think I think human beings have been oftentimes monogamous in the history of humanity and and I think that So that means that people have been and committed one-on-one relationships for a lot of humanity and I don't tend to think that like Human beings are one way. So I think that we have tendencies to be in You know relationships that are more open and we have tendencies to be in relationships that are more committed and I don't think like humanity I think either side that says oh science says that open relationships are bad or science says that open Committed relationships are bad I think neither of those people really understand science because it's complex like we're complex human. We're complex organisms That's been my understanding and I think if it works for you, I think that's fine I think you know, like like you said, so it sounds like there are a lot of work and That you you tend to find a lot of enjoyment out of kind of more temporary relationships Right and and so marriage sounds like headache and bondage Every the thing is doc every time you got remember this you're smart. I'm dumb right simple as that So when you're talking words to me, I like how you're talking to me You got to get to my level because otherwise I'm not gonna understand you right? I know you're very extremely smart I got you but let me say this And I'm gonna be honest Every time I you know, I'm very open book every time I get and I don't mean to brag I've been with 22 women 23 women right in my life, right when it comes to sleeping with the whole way That's not including other for play. Okay All these women I've been with I can promise you I and I'm not bragging Every woman I get with they always try and get me in the relationship with them, right? And so most of our relationships I've landed in the relationship without even want to be there You know, you know how it can be if you're a nice guy One of these women all guys they you know, they get if you and next you know it you're in a relationship You're moving it together now. Let's talk about marriage and you didn't consent to it Just kind of fell into place and I always fall for that trap. It's happened all my life. I'm 28 It's happened all my life. So now I'm like, no, no, no, I need to start being more you got to be cool to be kind Doc, you know that you know that What does that mean? You got to be cool to be kind. You've got to be cool to be kind To be kind, okay Okay so if you're always nice if you there's a girl that you like and she likes you when you make out that's Fantastic if she if you have consented sex with each other fantastic But she might get the incentive that you want to be with her and you've got to tell her from the get-go Actually, this isn't you've got to be her a bit to let her know where she stands if you don't tell her that Hey, this is only you know last date in temporary She's gonna get let on that she's gonna get hurt way worse rather than telling her now Yeah, of course to be cruel to be kind early. You understand that No, it's not but it's just a saying Cool. I said it No I mean I think it makes sense that you know It sounds to me that being sort of honest and transparent about what your intentions are towards the relationship is absolutely a good thing Either as soon as you make it out as soon as you get to know each other put it out on the table That's my advice to your viewers if you want to get with a girl or a guy Just let them know where you stand straight away. Don't get yourself Block going don't go in blindly because if you do you're gonna be ended up in a relationship Can I explain this my daughter do you want to know how that happened? Right? Sure three years three years ago? I was with this Spanish woman. I got bad on twitch I went to Spain I had a Spanish girlfriend which I didn't want to be with but we landed in a relationship like we're talking about We finally broke up and it was kind of messy and then had an Italian girlfriend who funny enough I made up with lot last night. I had so we we dated and that ended Terrible because drama and then straight after I got with the mother of mother of my child, right? so we hooked up on a on a on a couple occasions just for just for sex and She was you know, the truth is she didn't plan on getting pregnant she didn't know she can get pregnant because she was she was convinced she couldn't get pregnant and then She was we were friends and she was looking for accommodation So she stayed with me because I was being nice because I'm a nice guy and then the first I moved into this house, Doc I'm cleaning my car. I'm looking up. I talked to my neighbors. I looked up. I said, thank you gods I've got my Supra, which is my sports car. I looked up. I don't thank you. God. Nothing can ruin this moment I turned around I opened the door and she went I'm pregnant while holding a pregnancy stick. So I said Yeah, yeah, and I said fuck you and she she was like shocked like this Like I don't know. No, seriously. Fuck you because I don't really believe in abortion, right? So I was so upset I cried. I never I never cried. I went to my mom's I said mom. I don't want this. I can't be a dad. I'm terrible And my mom really loved her. So my mom was like encouraging it which is another note to all the viewers out Don't Don't force yourself to stay with someone if you don't want to be of them It's not right, right you connect because you're gonna there you're wasting your time and you're wasting their time And that's what I learned with my ex Ali your cameras just a touch blurry. Sorry Yeah, so so Ali I want to kind of dig into one thing maybe so you said that you you land into Relationships and then you also said that one day you kind of wake up and then there was like no more hatred So I'm kind of noticing that like sometimes they're just the language that you use almost makes it sound like You know things sort of happen outside of your intentions or control Sorry, I'll ask me the question one more time it wasn't it's sorry I should have been clear It wasn't it there wasn't even a question there I'm just making an observation that sometimes the way that you talk about things you sort of say like I you know you wind Up in a relationship. Yep, that's what it's make you make it sound like the weather You know right and and also like when it comes to your mood you kind of mention that you know one day you woke up And and your hatred was gone and that too. It sort of sounds like a roll of the dice So I'm just I'm just wondering whether there's some value into digging into like how do things happen in your life and like what? Role do you play in them because it's kind of interesting right because if people could learn What happened to you that? Right, so my life's I've always just got into life blindly if you said I had no structure only been recently I'm like, okay. I'm gonna stream every day, right? I'm gonna have my best friend look out for me and he's gonna help me and we're just gonna focus on no relationships Going out having a good time every couple of weekends, right? We can't do every weekend. So I've got my daughter on on the weekends on the week where I have her and Right now it's just full focus twitch all in with our chips twitch TV, right? So for the first time in my life because I'm now 28 I've just realized to have structure but before the past 28 years I've just been doing life blindly and I'll be that's why I've been so With relationships jumping in in and out in and out there's been drama. There's been hatred but for the first so you need you definitely need in your life like a Plan like a routine yeah an idea of where you want your life to go. What do you want? Start planning now. Where do you want to be in a couple of years time? Yeah So so can you tell me how do you how do you like? How did you wind up in a relationship? The last one. Yeah, sure. Okay. So we she obviously was pregnant and she was with her and There were talkers hooks of abortion and I even know we were both against it And anyone watching could say they're against abortion But the second that you are in that predicament where you have someone pregnant you you start thinking maybe I'm not so much against it Do you understand doc? Sure, you understand because it's different when you're in that position Of course, I say that outsider I see the judge from the outside Right exactly. So there were talks about it and believe it or not This the day that and we this is gonna sound horrible It was like a couple of months into it of because it takes months here in the UK all the Sound route, but the abortion clinic here in the UK is like a month waiting period because I guess people just love unprotected sex Right, so we were lined up to do that which sounds horrible, but she's here now, but back then she wasn't existed We didn't know her so I don't want people watching thinking. Oh, that's horrible. She's right there. She wasn't even around It was nothing it wasn't you know, so the day that it was meant to happen Tell me why doc the alarm didn't go off. I don't know why don't ask me why it You know, she was gonna set the alarm it never went off, right? So pretty much I got up I was upset like oh my god. Are you crazy? We can't be adults You know, I'm a childish idiot and I'm not ready for this So she starts crying and I thought and I was so nice. I was like shit I can't put this stress on her because if you stress out a woman who's pregnant you can ruin their body You know that right you can ruin a body where they can't even have because of the stress of so I gave her a hug I said, it's fine. Don't worry about it. We have to reschedule, but I never did reschedule We never did reschedule next thing, you know it dot she's got a bump and it's growing and I just put it off I was like, you know what, you know this because twitch run banning me at the same time and twitch like look We want to keep a really clean profile. I was like no problem I can't have a little stroke. So next thing you know, she's you know, she's I became overweight by the way That's another thing I came really overweight and my fans Hated me like they made fun of me and I moved the overweight and all that bad food Because when my when my girlfriend was pregnant that women have cravings they crave a lot of food I was eating the craving food as well like the fast food the McDonald's the KFC's and then pretty much next you know She gave birth fantastic. That was great And then in that year period of My daughter being bought up being alive. I was I forced myself to stay in that relationship to do the right thing I gotta be a parent. I gotta step up. I've got a standard relationship Now this is my life and in that year doc was the worst year of my life I love my daughter but forced myself to stay of that woman when I didn't want to be in a relationship It wasn't toxic. I just it was so hard and then was so much Because I didn't want to be with the woman I wanted to be free I always liked being free and a lot of these and I'm not trying to I'm not at all sexist at all But a lot of the women I get with they see my freedom and they want to just take me and shove me in a cage And hold me there There's a people people have this thing of where they control other people and I hate being controlled. I get so angry I mean I was just dating a woman last month from Wales and she was 38 Ten years on me and she we under for a week doc one week and she started saying where are you? Where you go? Why are you out? Who are you with? And I just said back up mad back up I'm not doing this because I just hate people that control of people. Is that like an insecurity thing? I just don't like people that control the people and I've been controlled all my life. But yeah Man every girl I've ever got with man I can't there's only been one girl I've ever wanted to be with and that was my ex-girlfriend in 2014 to 15 which ended up cheating on me, which I deserved it because I was so naive doc I could tell you stories and blow your mind, but I've been I've gone through everything but you know what? I only blame myself. I I was so naive I used to invite all these guys around all my fans, right and she had real depression I'm not talking everyone has everyone watching while depression we all suffer from depression, but you don't know depression until you meet someone who's Severely depressed where every day is a mission every day. They're crying every day that they have to take the antidepressants Can I ask you one or two questions? So I'm kind of curious about no, I love your stories man. I love listening to you talk You're really good storyteller, right? Yeah, but all my fans think they're fake for the not fake. I swear to you. Go on. No, I don't think they're fake man Thank God. Thank God So so, you know, it's interesting because you kind of talk it's almost like fate, right? So like you're talking about these things like, you know the the morning that you scheduled You met you the alarm got unplugged to like during the when you got prescribed the lithium Someone and so I'm just I'm kind of noticing that it I can't tell Ali whether you're in control of your life and run Doc I'm convinced I'm convinced and I don't want to sound crazy or like insane But I'm convinced that it's a stimulation like the matrix that I'm the only real person here and I'm being watched by eight Billion trillion aliens in my brain and I'm just a puppet and they're just everyone around me is not real That's what convinced you do you understand what I mean by that? Like how do I know that you're real how long the she's real it could all be a simulation Because everything is just happening for a reason right? So I don't sound nuts, but you must understand where I'm coming from right? Yeah, because yeah, it's happened for a reason and I believe this and I said this to Ryan I'm so glad my twitch career has been dead for the past three years because I didn't want my Mother my child to be involved in it because I feel like it wasn't meant to be It's only start taking off the past couple of months doc. I'm gonna be honest with you. Yeah, so When you say fight you scared the hell out of me because I used to play League of Legends and there's a cat called twisted And I don't sound cringy, but he's like a card master who believes in fate It's just weird that you said the word fate it is like fate my life is like fate every guy has happened for a reason You're scaring me doc. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so I mean what's up with that? Don't ask me. I thought I'd be let me tell you this right now. There is nothing in my life I would change right now this boat. There's nothing zero Life's perfect. My best friend and me are working together my daughter and me have got the closest relationship All the streamers like me I mean I'm my fat and my viewers They make the content all I got to do is turn up and cook. So who's who's who's responsible for that Allie? Everything I know life is going well Right. So I'll tell you what it is Positivity every if you're in life if you're a positive person Everybody's positive. Let me give you an example If you turned up to a car dealership right and you want to buy a car if you turn up or being negative They're not gonna want to do business with you If you're all positive and I'm gonna work a lot I'm gonna do this They might give you that load on that car because they believe in your positivity if you go around or being negative No, it's to be a friend. No one's a do business No one's to get to know you you've got to be positive to have positivity in your life and now is the God I'm always smiling. I swear to you honest to God and Yeah, that sounds powerful But let me tell you this though doc. Shall I tell you why sure diet you don't understand doc I don't sound like a crazy person But my god the government should ban white pasta white rice white bread It should all be pumping but and and I don't know my dad's Turkish I'm not but red meat red meat should be bad. It's so unhealthy for you. It makes you feel terrible next day It's just as bad as alcohol. What do you that's I'm not religious, but I've been fat and I've been thin And I'm telling you now Diet is effing I I've experimented this a hundred times if I was to eat a bowl of rice tonight and then wake up tomorrow I feel drained. I feel terrible. I feel depressed legit. I feel hurt my brain and so what was horrible. What do you eat? I eat chicken like not I like fried chicken, but just cooked chicken with seeds walnuts almonds salad spinach eggs All the time I prefer a salad anytime all the time and I feel so strong when I eat it and it makes me feel Give it a try Flush out your system. Don't eat anything bad for 24 hours I only eat healthy and you'd feel so good But you've got to eat you've got to eat some fats as well because fats fats are designed to make you feel good But not too much fats Yeah, avocado or if you want to eat chocolate have a bit of chocolate at the end of the day reward yourself A couple of sugars in your tea, you know, but that's the truth It's all about that people ask me a lot if you look at my Instagram. I did a transformation I was if you go back my face look like a bumblebee like I was stung by a bumblebee three years ago because I Was 14 stone. I'm now 10 8. Yeah. I know you don't do so you do kilograms, but you can Google it Yeah, right. So pretty much tall one stone is like 20 pounds 14 pounds is a stone. Okay So we could 20 stone No, 14 stone 14 stone. Okay, right. So now 10 stone 8 so 10 stone 8 pounds Yes, so pretty much either way I've always got energy people think I'm on cocaine all the time. I've never done drugs I've only smoked marijuana twice and that was in California twitchcon last year and pretty much I'll tell all your viewers right now if you're fighting depression or anxiety Number one rule I'd say to you is look at your diet and tell me there isn't your diet doing that to you Give it a day. We don't eat bread or pasta or all rice Give it a try and just eat the right foods and chicken is amazing fish amazing. But yeah, that's the one thing I'd say so you back to the question Who's doing all this to you? First was me and it's my diet and everything else. I don't get angry ever I've never if something back my daughter spilled Porridge all over me. I just kind of laughed and wiped it off. Here's a funny story last week I had a white car, right? It was my ex's but I bought it for her I gave it to the dealership and they were like, hey, we're gonna offer you 16,000 100 pounds for this I said sure I take it because I saw it to him and then the next day The evaluation of the car went up at 17,000 pounds, but did I get angry? Did I get upset? I laughed and said ha ha That's funny. That's just life and carried on Normally if I had a bad diet, I'd be upset I'll be crying I'll be like, oh my god I lost 900 pounds, you know, so you yeah sure I never get angry over anything anymore You know some people really funny sauce time you were angry. Oh Right, what was the last one was angry Ryan? He doesn't know What was that? So I was angry. Oh, oh when that girl tried controlling me a few weeks ago in Wales Yeah, so I met this girl on a sat I met this girl on a Friday we got together She's you know, she's the first your daughter wants a cookie. Oh So it's not a cookie. Okay. Okay, I know I'll talk about that But you know, she's got high metabolism and a typical fallout anyway, so let's rock on right? She likes the Oreos There you go There you go Yep, so so pretty much the last was angry doc was pretty much. Yeah About two months ago for three four weeks about four weeks ago. I met this girl on a Friday. We had a great time I went out met her on Saturday. It was an amazing time on the Sunday She went and saw her kids and she started messaging me higher who you with I went I'm with business people Who are they? I said, I just met them. Can you send me a video of them, please? No, I can't do that. So I went to the toilet to send her a voice note Why are you in the toilets for what? Why are you hiding something from me? I got so angry doc because she's trying to control me I've only known this girl for a few nights and she wished oh, I got so angry because I just hate I have a vendetta Against people that control other people. Oh doc. It's one thing that I Angry, I just because I'm free. I'm free. I'm like a bird. I'm free I'm soaring and seeing all these other cage birds or people caging the birds that angers me I don't like seeing men control women. I don't like to see women control men I just think guys every time I go out for a night out and I go out a lot doc It's what I tell I stay happy because I socialize a lot. It's not we're animals us humans We're animals. We need to socialize sure understand. Yeah, I know that Cobra's going on. It's tricky I understand that but there are ways to still to talk to people So when I go out and you can ask my best friend Ryan when we go out every time we see married people or couples They both sit there on their phones like this Sitting down like that. They don't have conversation and I'm thinking look how miserable these people are and they're together You know that together could come in together. They're trying to be a little fat and that's what I'm sure they're happy But to me, I'm thinking I've been in relationships. I'm 28 I know these people want more but the two that they they do they you know what they do they get into this They stuck in a rut you understand. Yeah, so When was so you said that you've got a vendetta against people trying to control you People yeah, and me and and when did that vendetta start? My first girlfriend that took my virginity Yeah Yeah Yeah, but every girl I get with doc. They're trying to troll me like that. I honestly I swear to you I am NOT joking. I'm not memeing. I swear every girl I get with I don't want to brag Every girl I get with okay play like this. Are you ready for this doc? There's a girl I was just with a girl on Last weekend last weekend on the Sunday I was with this girl. She's married for five years We've been on two dates and she was contemplating. She even told me there and then She would happily leave a husband and start a shoot with me because every time we a girl I'm so I just I've gotten I hide nothing I've got no walls and every time they want to get to know me more they want to lock me down and I get scared Off. Yeah, why do you think I want to lock you down so much? Because I don't want to brag. I know cuz I don't know bright but um, I've got nothing to hide and women love a guy That doesn't bullshit. I don't I don't I don't I don't lie to anybody I'm very open book and women could see right through me. They see okay. He's got something good going for himself Let me get some of that. That's the truth. But in this business time in twitch Me as a whole I can't afford to get with any woman. I can't settle down I can't do it because my life gets insanely boring Simple as that my the peak of my my viewers. They love me a lot I'm not 90% of my viewers doc a lot my two of my viewers have work have school They live in other countries. They haven't got any money. They can't grab that They've got social anxiety and they watch me and I have to live my life and tell them the stories and they get a feel for it That's the truth doc. Okay. I would my viewers to live through me That's it. Allie. Can I think for a second? Anything you want? Thank you Well, is there something I can help you with As I said to you my life's perfect I thought we were gonna talk about moving on in relationships which sounds like you've moved on Yeah, I've lost good. Like what can I say? I think I've got a lot to you. I've nailed life And that's it. All I want to do is stream every day. I Mean it. Yeah, I sound very happy. I I'm you would see through me if I was faking it right you would see right through me You would see you would know if I'm lying to you right now, right Baby people right. Okay. Yeah, what I say is I'm not lying. I'm not trying to say, you know I don't have any issues got I've been through a lot But right now I don't even like to think about it. I can talk about it. Yeah, honest. Yeah Yeah, so Ali can I can I share what I what I am getting from you Go ahead. I'm all so so I I think I mean you do sound very genuinely happy I think you know you've you've sort of figured out what you want and And you know, you're kind of living life and I think you're making the most of life I think you kind of roll with the punches right? And and so I I really see that I think I'm a little bit You know, I think there's there's something to be said of Sort of the fate right so I I don't know exactly how to understand that But I I do think it's kind of interesting because you know, you honestly Alley and let me know I don't mean to offend you or anything what you remind me of is I can't get you could have The most unfitable person you could offend you could call me anything you want go ahead. No, so I you kind of remind me of a B Like a B like you're kind of like moving from flower to flower right like if you think about Yeah, like if you think about the existence of a B It's like it's kind of like happy-go-lucky, and it's sort of like you're kind of going over here today Like we're on this flower. We're gonna appreciate all of its beauty We're gonna just you know do what we're doing today, and then you kind of flip to the next flower You kind of flip to the next flower now. I'm hearing I'm hearing I'm hearing you're saying you're doing a lot of work and you're doing a lot of work I'm hearing you're trying to structure your life and trying to actually like be dedicated to something which is very not be like You know then it's it's more like you're you're kind of like really kind of focused on building something You're dedicated to streaming streaming every day. You're dedicated to building structure for your daughter You have her one week on one week off So you're you're not it. You know in a sense. I think a B is a little bit unfair But I kind of see both of these sides of you one is like you know Live for today be with the person that you're with enjoy yourself on any given day Be with the woman that you're with and then you know Sometimes you feel very very concerned about getting caged and it seems like there's something Indescribably attractive to to women about you because once they get a taste of Ali they can't they need a little bit more People gonna say people gonna say Cap all the time, but doc you gotta see it in person you gotta see it in person I think so man. I believe you dude. I think that there's you know I think you're a very charismatic positive sort of guy right right the thing that I sometimes wonder a little bit about is That you know you're talking about feeling perfect in the here and now and that makes sense I think you're genuinely very happy I think you're genuinely very happy, but what I'm also getting the sense of is that that you know that There can be sunny days, and there can be cloudy days Right right and and that like everything is fine until you feel controlled or until and then something will really upset you Or you know even if you kind of talk a little bit about like the story of how you discovered that you're you know that I don't even know what to call her your ex-wife You know that I don't even know what to call her your ex-girlfriend or was pregnant And and so you know there are a lot of ups and downs And so I think and and a lot of times people will call this bipolar I'm not I don't really know I mean I have to I'd have to ask you a bunch of questions I'm not so sure that you're bipolar But because it seems to me that you're so just a quick Take a step back and here's my understanding of bipolar a lot of people think about bipolar as You know like you're like you have a good day And then you have a bad day, and you're happy one minute, and you're really angry the next minute. That's not really bipolar That's what we call emotional lability which means that your emotions can rise and fall very quickly right bipolar disorder what I really think of is is episodes that last days weeks or even months at a time of being depressed I Say or manic or hypomanic and so the closest thing that I can kind of get to is that you know you You know that it's possible that you had that mood episode for four to five months after your Ex-girlfriend kind of broke up with you or whatever like six seven months ago And he said you one day you woke up, and you just felt better That actually is the thing that makes me think the most about any I mean, but that just could be you know It doesn't have to be an illness or anything. It's just you know you had a bad Situation where it sounds like your ex-girlfriend cheated on you, and you were breathing and unhappy, and it sounds like an appropriate sadness to me the Hold that fault it's gonna sound crazy, and I say this to my viewers all the time, but I really do believe I've never done cocaine, and I've never I've only smoked marijuana twice in California. I'm not a drunk. I'd like to get drunk I don't I haven't covered stashed of alcohol. I don't touch it. I'm not craving it I never have never will but the thing is I really do think I've got a healthy diet And I think and I don't want to make people think I've got the biggest ego But I think I'm an example of the perfect human being and when people see me all happy they think oh you're bipolar because you're Way too happy or you're way too loud or you're way too confident. You're bipolar. I don't think I am I think I'm an example of a perfect human being which that people think oh look at this guy's got a huge ego So people just can't understand me because I'm I don't Drug my body. I don't I look after I work out and I just want a shadow of you I really do believe to myself I'm an example of what everyone should be like a healthy minded positive thinking person and that's just what I feel So I also don't think I'm bipolar enough. They all tell me well You're what you think this is a vibe by popular are the sure I don't know if you're bipolar or not I was definitely definitely we're looking I came in I got found on Twitch I went to that psychiatrist angry looking for any answer. Why am I like this? Why am I? And she diagnosed me in two hours, which is way too short for a diagnosis in my opinion And on top of that, you know, they did try drivers license They they made it from like a 20-year license to like a one-year license We have to renew every year So I go back to the doctors and I'm like take that bipolar off my record right now And they're like we can't do that sir. It's like cancer once it's on the record. It's on there for life I was like, oh we'll take it off because I don't want my drivers license revoked every year So they've now made it a three-year license. So every three years I've got to get tested to make sure I'm fit enough to drive Let me just be very clear I I'm not removing bipolar from your chart because I don't really know if you're bipolar or not All I'm saying is that so far I think a lot of times people confuse something called emotional ability With bipolar disorder Right and and bipolar disorder is a period is really characterized by weeks or months Of feeling a particular mood level Yeah, and then you switch for once again weeks to months I see now what I'm hearing from you is that and and I get what you're saying about, you know being a perfect human being But what I'm what I'm hearing from you is that you're a perfect human. You're a perfect human being some of the time Right did I say that no, but that's what I'm guessing Well in the past few months of my streaming streaming all that everything's fantastic I've got everything that I want in life. I'm always high You understand? Yeah. So what happens when you don't have something that you have in life? Like my twitch channel My twitch channel That I told you it was the worst It was the worst doc never get yourself down on twitch you Yeah, I could explain I could I could it brings back That I need you know what? It's the attention. It's a matter party. You know what? It's it's a race right now We're in a race a hundred meters sprint. All these streamers are lining up and I'm in the race before that a channel I'm not in that race. I've got to sit for the sidelines. That's what it's like. I can't compete So that that's what concerns me a little bit is that like so if we okay Let me just can I think for a second before it while I collect my thoughts? Okay I'm all is yeah, I'm just thinking Love what you do doc gotta say as you think I love what you do best stream. I'll tell you Thanks, Ali, I appreciate that man Yeah, so Ali here's the really confusing thing so I Think a lot of what you say makes a lot of sense. I don't disagree with you really much at all. I think that you I'm not surprised that I love that. I love that I'm not surprised that many women want more of a relationship with you than you want with them. I Don't think that I think that you've discovered a couple of really important things about your mood and diet and things like that And I do think that at times you have You know a really wonderful energy about you You know, you're positive. You're charismatic. You're funny. You're a good storyteller. All those things are great The thing yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's a there's the other shoe coming. So get ready for it. Oh So here's the only thing that really concerns me Ali is that that it seems like a lot of this stuff is dependent on Things outside of your control So this is what's really interesting is that you know when I ask you about it, you know, why are you feeling so good about yourself? I think you've discovered a couple things that absolutely are in your control, right? So your diet Staying positive waking up every day and saying okay I'm gonna focus on stream and then stream kind of does well and like reinforces you so it's kind of interesting because you're you're you're like I think you're halfway. I mean I I Agree with you a hundred percent, but I feel like something's missing There's something incomplete and I think what this comes back to is Sort of this idea of like attention seeking and that's the best way I'm gonna describe it Is that it seems to me Ali that a lot of the way that you feel is dependent on your circumstances So like when yeah example like today when my daughter had a bit of a temperature She couldn't go to school. I couldn't stream. I was really upset. I was so frustrated and flustered Yeah, so and I was sitting there going my fans are gonna kill me. They don't think I'm lying. I'm ditching Yeah, good example and you're right. Yeah now I like keep going. I'm listening Yeah, so so, you know if we think about ten-year-old you that that When your teacher says, okay kids everyone take your seats and then you say fuck you miss and then everyone laughs then you feel Amazing, right? I mean, can I just go back a second? Yeah, I would be more like cheeky I you know, I said that but back in school. I would say like when I was 10 11 12 You can ask anybody went to my school. I'd say miss I've woken up miss You got really nice tits today and she'd go Ali get out right now and she would laugh but I would go out So it wasn't like a toxic it was like a yeah Yeah, but go on carry on. I don't want to come across as like a toxic but go on No Yeah, so so I I don't I I'm just noticing that I think a lot of what your mood Or just how you feel about yourself in a lot of your positivity seems to be dependent on Certain aspects of the outside world and especially like sort of the esteem of other people And that you know if things are going well on Twitch or you're able to stream or stuff like that you feel really good about yourself But if you're kind of isolated if you're back to being like the kid that you were when you were growing up where you were sort Of like, you know people sort of didn't treat you with respect and stuff like that. It kind of makes it So you kind of don't feel so good about yourself, which is normal, right? So like we respond To how we get treated Yeah, I'm with you you're right, but is that a bad thing though? Well, so yeah, is it like no, I mean I Everyone like me so so everyone's like that, right? So if people make fun of me, then I'm gonna feel bad about myself and if if people treat me well I'm gonna feel good about myself. I think some people are More or less responsive to the esteem of others Okay, right Right, so so what I'm curious about and I and this is the thing is I think when you're positive I can see why people sort of would use the term bipolar to describe you because It seems to me that you know, a lot of times you're like you're as you put it a perfect human being and and you know, pardon me Ali, but I don't think that you're I Don't think you're enlightened or something like the Buddha or Christ or anyone like that. So I don't think you're actually perfect I think you're perfect the way you are and At the same time I wonder like when you're feeling less than perfect Like what does that look like and where does that come from and how do you buffer yourself? How do you I'm gonna tell you now I Am addicted to feeling good and looking good addicted so much addicted the about two years ago Someone changed the forehead emote to a free head emote, right? You know when some British some British talks in the whole chat spams free head my teeth were scuffed before right? I when people start to hang a free head to me I went and got my teeth knocked out by dentists and got fake teeth put in like you see my teeth now They're all fake. Let me get up there, but and let me tell you why right because number one I'm insecure as hell not anymore. I used to be since I've changed everything. I'm not I look I go Yeah, I'm not scared anymore. But look you see that they're not real. Okay Yeah Because they were scuffed before but let me tell you this as well so much so and I mentioned my dad's Turkish that my Viewer base grew of me having a big bent nose. I'm told it was big. It was bent It was like a witch it was like have you played the Sims? You know the character game the Sims you create a character You could change their eyes their eyelashes their cheeks the jaw But it looks like God may gave me a really big nose and it was a doc It wasn't like a bit. No, it was like oh my god. That guy's got a huge nose So the first thing I did was it cost me five grand I got a nose job, right? I don't and you could there's no scarring they went underneath the nose So I won't lie to you. I'm addicted now to looking good feeling good and I weigh myself every day I am very conscious of why I eat if I was to eat cheese or like a slice of pizza That's like two pounds on there and I need to lose that weight But I and it's a problem I've got where I'm addicted to looking and feeling good. I've got gray hairs I've got gray hair somewhere. So I have to keep my head dyed like oh, this is like the see this silver blonde thing going on because that's who I am and Honestly, it feels amazing. But if that was to be if I do slip or if I do look bad, I feel Terrible. I feel horrible. No one's looking at me. No one likes the way I look at is it a bad thing doc? Is it a bad thing? I think so. Oh you think it is? Yeah right Why yeah great question and I'm sorry, I'm just being transparent with you So I think that at some point so what I'm hearing is that your Your your esteem of yourself is dependent on external things Right the way that you feel about yourself, right? Right, but that's and you're right. Go on carry on No, go for it. You want to say something? I don't know. This is why I'm like this because this is one question. I've got for myself I don't know why I'm like this but doc I Like and I don't know why it's a problem it's an addiction I'm addicted to What's the word I'm looking for here I'm very materialistic and I like it I wear it and I like it I like it. It's just materialistic. I Yeah, so I'm have you have you seen the car just full it's a big black Jaguar F pace Suv and it when you if you look at it, you're gonna say that is a cock extension When my nothing wrong by penis doc, I can promise you nothing don't need it's fine It's a great size, but you'd look at it think why that guy there are there are 23 women that get a taste of it And want more right? So right so even even why my point is I don't know it's one I know myself really well, but I don't know why I'm so addicted to materialistic things I always say I always how does it make you feel to have that noise me? Yeah I told it it angers me so much when I see all these streamers that are millionaires And they don't even They don't show their communities what they've what their viewers have bought them. It annoys me. It makes me angry I don't know why I get something won't be private for their own security I get that but for me every time if I'm gonna build something I want to say guys you bought me this and So right now we're gonna we're gonna buy a house and I can't wait to move in I'll come in and show my views into a house. So like you guys got me this and I've got something wrong with me there. So how did it make you feel when I put that car? Do you want another truth? Yeah, okay, so the first I bought that car I felt amazing it felt great I showed everyone I felt on top of the world the next day doc and it still feels the same way I don't it don't even feel like I own the car. It feels like it's not even there I'm like I want my house now. I want a dual garage with a driveway with a gated with gates. I want security I want a CCTV. I want big house. I want a I want my friends live me I want my dad live me. I want a big house just to say that Also to say to my ex and this is about moving on but it's just I wanted to all the girls I've ever dated to say Haha, fuck you. Look what you could have got. It's like bragging rights I'm not I don't choose to be like that, but that's how I feel So maybe there is segment with me you can tell me what why I like this Yeah, let me let me just think about how to answer that all good So Allie what I'm noticing is that like so you got this car, right? It's an awesome car fantastic I think my super I've got super. Okay, cool. Okay, so And and I think it like it makes sense that you know You're happy and you want to share that with your viewers because you're the yours are the ones that enabled you to get that car Like totally makes sense, right? It makes me feel really good when I'm out going to bars and clubs and hotels and I'm pulling up in the best car They're like, haha wankers Not a sudden mature, but we're gonna get out on a table now Is this a problem of mine? I said how I feel I don't know why I'm like I think I like this. I think so. I think it is a problem I was also up as a poor kid. I was brought up. I didn't get any pocket money We lived in a caravan. Okay, I guess what? My mom still lives in a caravan like proper proper eight mile Eminem yeah, I'm not joking Okay, I never had my own bedroom I Sister's yeah, I'm gonna say something. It's gonna be a little bit judgmental. Okay do it and I think we sort of we got to this in the first few minutes, but so you're making up for being a Shy kid who didn't have his own bedroom grew up in a caravan with bad teeth and a mom who slept slept around and And and now to make that like on the inside that kid is there and So the more that you make yourself perfect on the outside the more you Get your t3 done get your nose done. Die your hair drive a fancy car The more you can ignore forget or no longer be that kid I'm not gonna cry. But yeah, I think that you think you're right is you've just blown my mind I think you're damn right. I hated that me. Yeah, you got it. Yeah I'm not I'm actually more pricey. I am now I'm more powerful. I am now that I'm like, that's definitely not me But yeah, you yeah, but but so but that so here's here's the problem, right? So Ali you You try so hard to not be that kid which makes sense and At the same time like I don't think there's anything wrong with that kid right that kid like he's just he did the best that he could given the circumstances that he had and like sure that kid can grow into like a successful man who takes care of himself and like eats properly and goes out of his way to take care of his daughter and like is an awesome dad and streams on Twitch and tries to provide positivity to people and give back and And you don't have to be ashamed of that kid The reason I think this stuff is bad Ali is because when you buy the Jaguar you feel awesome for a day And then the next day it's like what's next? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right. Yeah, and so you get a nose job and then you feel amazing and then it's like oh shit I got to get my teeth done next. Yep. Yep. Yep. All my viewers know that's Yeah, you've now there and also as my daughter. Let me say this my dad won't there for me I wish my dad was there for me I always wanted my dad to talk to school and to see me and I want to always be I always want to spend Days of my dad. I always wanted my dad to come to school to pick me up in his car He had the same car I've currently got the Supra and I always wanted that but he never did and that's why when I talk to her school now I'm the best parent man all the kids look at me and they wish that I was that I was the dad and all the Power parents look at me and I'm like, haha But yeah, so I'm being the dad that my dad won't there for me. I'm being that dad for her and yeah, that's the truth But yeah, you're nailing this you're really good at what you do, but I'm really tough I'm crying on the inside, but I'm not gonna shout on the outside. I'm not gonna do it But yeah, right. So there it is again because because what you see what you what we see on the outside is so important to you Right, is that bad though? It's not I Generally speaking. I I hope you don't stay that way. I think it's fine We're all that way and then the question is do we want to be a different way because hit let me put it to you This way Ali you're you're gonna you're gonna model like your daughter is gonna learn a lot from you Okay, and so do you want to teach her that if her nose doesn't look perfect? She has less value as a human being no, but I'll be paying for a nose job if she wants it But I'll ask me a question again. Sorry. I asked me. Yeah So like I've already thought about it If I knows comes out anything like my old nose cuz in genetics or any of my kids I ordered those jobs are on me for free. It's like it's like that's just standard Go on ask me the same question again, cuz I mean, what do you want to teach her about her worth? What is her worth dependent on? I want her I don't want her to be a twitch stream like me I want her to actually have an education go through uni and be something to change the world or I'm talking to don't press that button Don't you dare press that button? Yeah, so what's okay? So do I want her to be like me in that way? Well, I just want her to be I'm just gonna let her be the woman she wants to be and I'm just if saying If she starts being a bit weird or I'd just say is that who you are? If that's who you want to be be that because life's not hard talk I'm gonna be honest with you If any viewers watching this is what I've learned if you want to be that guy It takes a mini second in your brain to be that guy for the rest of your life If you want to be a dick of a person you can just be a dick and you're that dick person So if you want to be a nice person be it it takes a second to be that person and that's the truth. So What's my point with my daughter I'm gonna let her sculpture herself But if there is ever a concern or a bit like that's a bit weird what you're doing. I might say are you sure? Sure. I mean, that's your job I'm never gonna be a parent where I make them Strict parents out there that make them wear that certain amount that clothes or wear that or they're gonna be it She's gonna be a free bird and I'm gonna pray she makes the right decisions Okay, because let me let go on so Alley, let me try to I'm gonna try to explain this you asked me is that bad? So let me put it to you this way So like let's take your ex-girlfriend, right? So one day you woke up and you no longer hated her Now does that lack of hate? So hatred can kind of come from two places like like maybe the reason how can I this is sorry I gotta take a step back I use that into this day. I use that as an energy The reason I came popular 2015 to 2016 because my ex cheat on me and I was like fuck you I'm gonna stream make it just to piss you off and I use that energy and then transform the site perfect And then after half a year when I was over I had this perfect thing going on so use it as an energy Yeah, so so I think that's great and at the same time I still feel like it kind of comes back to this idea that it's not dependent on you. It's dependent on the outside world Right, like if you're doing things to show people that they're wankers and that you've made it and all those kids that Bullied you on school. Look at Ali now like Ali's got beautiful teeth. Beautiful nose. Beautiful hair. Beautiful bitches You know, he's got he's got everything now And and and sure I mean that can feel good for a while but generally speaking in my experience Happiness that comes from the outside is temporary and also depends on the outside And that there's there's another kind of happiness that comes sort of from within for lack of a better term And and I think that you've probably you've undoubtedly had this right like where it's it's not I mean, I think that there are parts of you that feel really good about yourselves because of the kind of dad that you are But it's not because anyone is seeing like your daughter doesn't even know what you're doing for her, right? There's no outside reinforcement or support of your esteem or worth It's something that like you wake up in the morning and you say like, okay, she's got a fever today So she can't even go to the gym or go to the gym and she's like, okay, I'm going to go to the gym And you say like, okay, she's got a fever today. So she can't I'm going to be pissed about it But I'm not going to get mad at her. It's not her fault and she's never going to know that She's never going to thank you for it. No one's ever going to say like oh like look at Ali is such a good dad Like he stayed home and canceled his stream In fact, if anything you're you may get the opposite where your your your viewers may be like upset your community may be upset Oh, this guy's flaking again. They but but like all that stuff even from the outside you're going to get no reinforcement And maybe even some amount of flack or hatred or you know trolling or whatever But you can still feel good about yourself regardless of how the outside world treats you I think that is better Than the way you feel being dependent on how the outside world treats you At the end of the day ali, I hate to break it to you man But if you hadn't gotten a nose job, I don't think I would think any less or more of you I think what makes you amazing is not your nose Right. It's it's your like your drive to like be better And your ability to like roll with punches But but like the the nose the nose changes the way that you perceive yourself Right Man Man Man, so nice of you. Oh man. That's you're so you know, I really believe that you're like an angel Something to speak words of wisdom to people honest to god. Um I know what you're saying though. I get it. You're trying to say you don't need all this Because you can be your your loved one inside ali. You're trying to say that but what if I told you It's like venom the movie and spider-man 3 where eddie brock is like and he's like eddie Don't don't take the suit. It's bad and it's like, yeah, I like being bad. It feels good right now. It feels good Being this Outside, right? It feels fucking amazing. I feel on top of the world ali here's here's here's the problem I completely agree with you that it feels amazing right now Right. So that's the problem Is this like step back a bit because you're gonna get no so here's the thing if If the reason you feel amazing right now is because your twitch career is going well because everything is going well You just bought a car you're gonna buy a house like like if everything if your happiness is tied to the outside world And what the fates give you? Then it's tied to what the fates give you Right, right. And so what i'm asking you to do is consider a life Where your happiness is not tied to what the fates give you but it's Buddhas do that don't they they don't have any of that they just sit in the mountains and they they just have each other So like that sort of that's like obviously extreme. So what would you suggest go on? Yeah, so how am I okay? My question is how i'm meant to find happiness My question is how am I meant to find happiness without having goals and things to show for in the real world? You tell me okay. Great. So close your eyes And if my daughter comes in the top of pc just scream, okay, so ali What's wrong with you right now Can I respond yeah, yeah Nothing. Okay, then why do you need anything? right right Well, all I want to know is one answer for you. How can I be happy? Will you tell you told me I can be happy On the inside rather than the outside world So you tell me how I can be happy or how you demonstrate to anyone else I'd be happy with the inside not the outside. Yeah. Yeah, so so but what do you what do you what but so There's nothing wrong with you, right? Right, so like I still want Whatever you prefer. Yeah, she's coming. Okay. Okay. Yeah Okay Yeah, go on so so but ali here's the thing right? So like like if you think about why you want something in the outside world that comes from a desire within you Right, so it's an outside. It's the inside me. Oh, it's the outside me absolutely brilliantly put brilliantly put Right, so like this is where so like right now you feel perfectly content And so so then what's going to happen is at some point you're not going to be content Something within you is going to say I want a house or I want a car Right, and then why can't I why can't I keep just chasing that for the rest of my life? That's what gives people like goals, isn't it? It's like they get one goal fantastic feel great What the next one but that's life. We have to work hard and have goals. Am I wrong or I think you have to work hard. But but I don't I mean, yeah goals So that gets tricky for a second, but let me take a step back and ask you We'll talk about that in a second But let me just point this out. So like right now you're perfectly content. You don't want anything, right? But one day how other stuff but yeah, but so but how do you feel you don't have a house? So how do you feel? Right now. Yeah incomplete Okay, where does that sound come or where does that feeling of incompleteness come from? I don't own a house. I don't own my own house. Yeah, so so what what is that? Security But no inside you alley, I know it's kind of a weird baby shark dude, it's legit. Yeah But what what is that feeling of incompleteness? What does that feel like right? So like your knowledge that you don't have a house Is represented inside you in some way? Right Right. So like if you imagine Walking into your house You're going to feel something on the inside When the first time you walk into house you're going to feel something and until you do that There's like this emptiness inside you right? That's right Okay, so like Yeah empty slash. Um the feeling of one, uh The chase I won't call it empty. It's like, uh What's that? What's that? Yeah, good hunger. Yeah, what is that? Yes. Yeah, that's it. It's that feeling it's like Oh, it's the chase. It's like yeah. Yeah, i'm gonna get that. I want that. Yeah, okay That gives my stream on every day. That's why I'm a bit upset. I didn't stream but go on Okay. Yeah, so so let's think about hunger for a second, right because there are times where you've had hunger for rice Sure and right yeah, and what happens when you don't give into that hunger Like when you when you when you feel hungry for rice and you start eating it man, do you feel good? Right and then the next day how do you feel but then if you eat more rice or you have a cake? Oh, man, like there we go again. Like I feel that hunger. I want it again. I want it again. I want it again I want it again. I want it again. Oh, what's the next thing the next thing the next thing? The hunger always comes back That's true And the more you feed it what happens to you? You get big yeah Right, you start to feel bad about yourself. Yeah. Yeah So so how do you what do you do? No, you're trying to say that when I get this house and I've got that hunger I'm going to be wanting the next thing and the next thing is that what you're trying to say? Yeah Yeah, but let me say this doc who's laughing when I own five six seven eight houses and I'm a landlord And then my tenants who's laughing because you could put this this isn't the same being a landlord completely being huge and overweight and feeling bad Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah, so so the only part that's huge and overweight and feeling bad is your ego when you're a landlord Right, your ego gets overblown. Then you're like who's laughing now? All y'all little bitches and I'm a big man. Look at me. I'm a landlord You're a fucking tenant at that point. Your mind is obese. Your mind is 14 stone Your ego is 14 stone. Don't you think but don't you think some people find that attractive? Of course some people find it as like oh wow, I want to be like this guy. He's confident. Yes You know what you you attract the audience you attract the wrong type of women that are gold diggers and you attract the wrong type of friends They're trying to exploit you and use you I completely know where you come from but I'd rather be that guy than be someone who's scraping by Really struggling living anxiety that he can't cover his rent. So You know So You know Yeah, I agree. I agree. You should strive for stability So so you should absolutely strive for stability and I I think I think alley this is part of your journey, right? Like you started off as anxious Got it getting banned from twitch nowhere and now you've come out of it. And then your next phase is to transcend the entire thing To move like stop playing the entire fucking game because when you say like who's laughing that's ego man Like why do you need to show all of these women that tried to control you that like you're doing fantastic They're living their lives and like what what why do you want to show them like what you're just going to cause in pain Because you're successful Let me tell you that there's something called flexing and yeah, I know You're not a type of guy to flex and there's no way you are You're really humble and lovely and i'm glad you don't but there are types of people A lot of people out there that I don't care who's watching and who's the thing if anybody out there can flex It feels great. It feels good. It makes you feel in line If you're part and I'll be will get inspired by that person flexing sometimes sure true Yeah, I completely agree with you. So let me ask you this When did you first want to flex? Oh my god, um It was It's gonna be really cringy doc, but it was when I got banned on twitch. I was depressed I didn't spend money. I made a lot of money. I didn't spend the money It's only when I got banned I started spending money got addicted to it and I bought this stupid car and I put a big spoiler on it And I thought it was so cool. I thought it was really amazing. I made this video and it was the most Cringiest thing ever but I got addicted to that feeling. It was a nice feeling. You're damn right So let's think about that alley you started flexing when you felt bad about yourself You know what your first flex was your first flex was way before you bought a car my friend When was it then? Fuck you miss That was your first flex You didn't have to be the nobody that you were back in Primary school, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you could show up and boy did you flex you were like, uh Oh Look at me bitches Alley's in the house now y'all best pay attention Yep, and everyone laughed and boy did it feel good. I could get right in here to confirm it. I was The worst kid on top of the world There's a video on youtube that I made it's not a lot of it's a re-uploaded It's had when I first released it got a million views back in 20 And here here I am here. I'm talking about it, but I made this video when I was um 13 and i'm now 28 so it's 15 years ago on youtube I made this video and i'm going around the school and i'm just being a terror and it was called gross school goes to school And i'm just terrorizing the libraries and kicking books down and screaming You know calling people names and it went like viral on youtube It got like half a million views in a week and my headmaster pulled me in to make remove the video There's a re-upload of it and um, but yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right. You're really right God about what? Help me understand about the whole flexing thing about it's in it's who I am It started when it started when I was like 10 11 not it didn't start when I bought the car Yeah, so the flex ali the flex is to compensate for an insecurity Don't say penis, please. I'm not saying penis. Okay. I swear that I swear it's I don't know what it is then No, no, no, it's dude. It's it's it's to compensate for like caravan you Bad teeth you shy you who got bullied It's true, right? But here's the thing. Here's the thing. That's not the real you That kid isn't the real you and if that kid isn't the real you then you have no need to flex Right, I just say if there's nothing wrong with you. Why do you need to show off or prove anything to anyone? right You're right, you're right you're right You're not asking me to change You're not you're not asking me about you. You're just making me understand, right? Sure right Yeah, you want to change? No, not one bit. I just i'm understanding more about me Okay, because i've always asked why am I like this and you've helped me understand Yeah Yeah, so ali I don't think You are truly what you are now and I don't think you're truly what you were back then Right, I think you are what you are and that there's nothing wrong with it. So you don't have to prove anything to anyone They don't need to see they don't need to they don't need to see who you are because They'll never know who you are You know like right now what does your daughter think you are Well, I hope she knows that i'm her dad we did a dna test and she is she I am the dad But uh Well, she can't speak. I mean, I would hope she thinks that I'm a father. Yeah, sure. Yep, right And that you love her and she thinks you're awesome She can't get we've been talking for an hour and a half and she can't get enough of you Right, right. Is that because you got a nose job? No No, is it because of your teeth? No, is it because of your car? Is it because of how many followers you have on twitch? Oh, no, she's free. Did he free? How can she like you without any of those things? Oh, I see. Oh, I see. I see what you mean Oh, okay, right She likes me for who I am I right Yep Okay But a two and a half year old is it different to all the people? Nowadays it's different to like a 25 year old woman Do you understand just just because people out there are fucking dumber than a three-year-old does not mean you need to cater to them Right. I got you Animals and kids are the ones that see your real value Not instagram models Right, so you can you can live up to their esteem if you want to so you're you're right ali I'm not asking you to change. It's not my place to ask you to change It's my place To show you or try to help see what I think you are and in theory Maybe that's what you really are and then you should decide Right if you want to continue chasing materialistic things go for it if you want to continue flexing on people go for it But this is what I will tell you and what I have observed Is that the more your happiness? Is dependent on other people's opinion the less in control of your happiness you are That makes sense so it's like playing with fire is what you're trying to say absolutely So if I loved myself Who I really am and like early like we're talking about animals. They love who you are That's i'm not playing with fire then that's like a safe thing to do right? Safe absolutely. I mean, I think that's where real happiness comes from Sustainable happiness like you think about how does your daughter feel about herself Right, and why does she feel that way? It's because you see something within her. Why does she love you so much? Because you probably don't treat her based on what she does on the outside Gotcha Right her mom probably treats her differently whereas like you treat her like a person not like any one facet of her being You just don't pick one side You treat her as a person And my guess is that like and it's not your fault that you don't like her My guess is that like and it's not your fault or anything I think this is what happens when kids get made fun of and when you grow up where like you grow up in a Caravan and other people have houses They make you feel like less of a human being And what i'm telling you to do is stop playing their fucking game All right Because whether you have a house or whether you have a caravan she's going to see the same person Does she know that you guys have like a mansion or an apartment or a caravan right now? She doesn't know and she doesn't care Yeah, doesn't care what color your hair is I Don't want to say doc, okay good i'm just taking it in sorry No, no, it's good. I mean No, it's nice hearing it. Oh, it's you're right. You're not hearing it. Um what happens though when she grows up and um She hasn't got nice things right and then people at school make fun of her Excellent now we get to the important point. This is why you need to So Ali this is beautiful. You took the next point I was made fun of in school if I had a big nose and for living in a caravan and people would call me all names Like yep, you know, I mean, so I why would I want her to that's I do a lot of it for her I say this all the time, but I do want her to have the best things So i'm the cool dad when I and I don't sound weird here, but when she goes to school and she has Her birthday all her all her friends can come Stay in a big house and have a party which I never had Did I mean I don't i'd rather have that life rather than have life where because I never had a birthday party I never had loads of friends over. I didn't get that luxury Yeah, you know, I've already got a sleepover and if so, it was weird But um, and that's it. So I want I want her to have nice things I don't want to get bullied. Well, I got bullied. Do you know what I mean? So so Ali I can get behind that 100 percent because let me explain something to you though. So why should you work hard? Working hard to flex on noobs is one thing For family, but I I do want to dismiss that I do everything I do do is for my daughter as well It's just a additional it's also for ellie. That's yeah I it's all for Yeah, i'm doing all right Yeah, so so so I I think when you work hard you do so for two children You do so for ellie And then you do so for 10 year old you Right. Yep. And so what i'm saying is one of those is going to be temporary And you're going to feel like you're going to go back to feeling the second you buy a nice car And then someone that you dislike buys a nicer car. You're going to go back to feeling like that 10 year old kid But should you work your ass off should you stream every day should you try to be bigger and better and more secure? Should you become a landlord instead of a tenant and have control over your own destiny? Absolutely It's the why that's important. Are you doing it? To make other people see how big your dick is. Are you doing it for your daughter? Yeah, I got you are you asking me that because no, I mean I think you're Yeah, yeah, and I think I think both of them exist within you right now and that's okay It's just over the next couple of years. You've got to decide Whether you want to chase temporary happiness because you're damn right. It feels good. That's why everyone chases it Like why do you think everyone's doing this? Why do you think instagram exists? It's because temporary highs are very addictive and so easy to attain It's way harder to sit with that hunger And conquer it and not give in because it's so satisfying when you get that bowl of white rice And you just start shoving it in your face. Man, does it feel so good for that hunger? But then the hunger comes back tomorrow Yeah, and then a jaguar and then a home, but why do you want a home? Is it because you want to flex or because you don't you want to be able to have a party for your daughter? I've got a massive Thing and this is getting a bit to know me when I was a kid and I was growing up my dad Weren't there my my mom's block with him when she was six and one second Sorry, my friends listen to the stream and I can hear myself talking I hate my own voice So pretty much when I was a uh, when I was a kid, I um My dad weren't there And they they he set my mom's car on fire. They broke up right? It's drugs and all that crap and uh pretty much what happened was uh, um My mom met this fella after a few years of dating a few guys and um, he's very old-fashioned And the day that I left school, I was a very quiet kid at my family at the caravan at home at school I was a terror so much so that my mom would get reports that I was really loud in class and she wouldn't believe it She we turned up to her parents evening and the teachers were like ali's loud He swears a lot and she's like not my ali what this ali and I would sit there like You know, so the day that I left school, I did really bad. I didn't pass any of my grades. I came into school I was meant to get a's and b's because I took this dark side of being immature and flexing with um, this loud mouth Potty mouth kid I left with all bad grades the day that I finished school My I felt it coming for years my stepfather the day that I left school when I was 16 the day that happened He was like get out go and we got to a massive fight My mom and me got to a like a bit of she she punched me in the nose She she denies it to this day. She's like I didn't I'm like, yep I had a nosebleed you punched me in the face. She she's like livid if I want to tell her that she doesn't want to hear She just says no, no, no, so I got kicked out when I was 16 I also got kicked out when I was 14, but I went inside around a friend's house and still to this day You know one on this stream knows knows what it's like to live with someone and if you do you do but You have no idea what it's like to live Maybe you do doc to live with someone and be dependent on them to keep you there It well I lived growing up From my teenage years in anxiety that my stepfather was gonna kick me out and I was so scared of him We never talked we never interacted all I wanted to do was sit down and play runescape and that and make youtube videos And that guy terrified me that still to this day I'm my worst fear ever is not being able to pay My rent that's why every time I get a girlfriend I get i'm like i'm paying all the rent i'm paying all the bills I'm paying everything everything's on me. I won't let you spend a penny because I don't want anyone to feel that anxiety which I felt Growing up. I hate no one there might be someone watching this stream like a 16 year old who's doesn't know what he's going to do Relief school, it's the worst feeling in the world living with someone and being scared They're gonna kick you out because it's just the worst feeling in the world and now I had that I used to clean up Be really polite Was quite quiet and scared and still just to have that anxiety That's why now I want to buy a house if not houses and I want to own so it's like a security like hey I'm never going if if if if shit hits the fan I'm okay because I bought these houses and I could sell them and live off that for a while And that's it doc. So that is so it's not so much the reason I want to buy a house is number one Yes, it's my daughter as well number two. It's it makes me feel good. Hey, I own a house but number three mostly it's security Do you understand it's that I have this living anxiety. I'm so scared. That's why now I the past three years I haven't streamed I've just been living anxiety because I was too scared to stream with my fan base But now all I want to do is stream every day I would stream 30 days a week a month if I could But with with with my daughter I can't but um, either way, that's the truth So that is you know, that anxiety is still there and all my last girlfriend I let her live here and The problem with me we're human beings we can find negatives in the most positive thing For example, I didn't let her pay anything. I paid her car insurance I paid all for all her food her clothes. You name it was all on me the past three years I did that so much. I paid every bill. I paid everything that in her brain I starved her from being her own woman when she left me. She was like, I want to leave I want my own place. I want to pay my own bills. I want to be independent I gave her so I didn't let her pay anything that I starved her from let's say Independence she could go out she could go out. I'm not keeping her indoors She was allowed to go out. She could she was free as a bird But because I paid all the bills her brain sort is a negative because us human beings will find a negative Look at millionaires look at millionaires They they still hate their lives some of them because they just see negatives and all their friends are afraid all their friends are fake And and they're you know, and it's not enough, you know, so pretty much I made a mistake with my ex-girlfriend. I I pretty much starved her from independency by paying all the bills because I didn't want her to live my anxiety I didn't want her to feel the same way I did when I was When I was a kid of the anxiety of I'm gonna get thrown out gonna get kicked out Oh my god It was the worst feeling in the world worst feeling in the world and that's that's so that's one of the reasons why I want to buy a house. So it's like yeah, and I want to keep on going until I feel really secure I ain't gonna stop streaming all the time Every day. Yeah, that's it. So now you know a bit more It's it sheds a lot of light alley. Thank you so much for sharing right Is she insecure What my daughter? Yeah We don't we not not at all. She's not scared of anyone. She doesn't play by the children She loves she prefers adults when she goes to her school Does it she she I can have? 10 strangers turn up women men. She won't care. She'd walk in the room. She doesn't care She act like they're invisible legit invisible. Where does that security come from? What her security? Yeah I don't know a lot of her kids her age are really shy. She hasn't she's the opposite. Yep. She just yep Allo, where does security come from? It's you'll be a born That way right? Nope, right. Oh, no Nope, where does your insecurity come from? Which one the The one with me Want to buy stuff or the one where I want the attention like or the one where i'm take your pick good good answer, right? Okay, so your insecurities come from experiences Your desire to have a house and security comes from this Traumatic fear of being kicked out when you were 16. That's where the insecurity is born right The interesting thing is that I'm listening. I'm listening. I'm listening Right, the full cook is the full cookie man. I'm gonna make a dinner shortly. Go on carry on doc. I'm listening. Yeah No, i'm just appreciating her I'm all ears. I'm all ears. Yeah, so so my point gore and and Maybe we can wrap up in a few minutes But just to think about this is like so you're talking about Yesterday by like buying a house today. I'm not saying you shouldn't get a house. Absolutely. You should provide security But what i'm saying is that the interesting thing is that her security doesn't come from solving an insecurity. It comes from like Faith in herself and comfort because like that's what you've given her Right, like she knows her value as a human being because you treat her with value And what i'm saying is that the solution to your insecurity is to just You know, I'm not saying that you should provide her with security I'm just saying that you should provide her with security because you treat her with value And what i'm saying is that the solution to your insecurity sure a house will help but that emotional scar Like has to be dealt with directly Right. So like it's about sitting with some of the feelings that you have and acknowledging that you have this like traumatic event about like being kicked out but like Appeasing the anxiety from the outside doesn't actually do anything to the insecurity Like just like when you get a nose job a little while later You're going to be worried about your teeth a little while later. You're going to be worried about your hair There's something with the insecurity exists and fixing it from the outside isn't going to do anything to the insecurity on the inside And and so I know it's kind of a weird question but you need to do for yourself what you've done for your daughter And then the insecurity will be gone You Right Right, i've self-consciously done that. She's very she's not insecure at all. So tell me exactly what I gotta do Treat yourself the way that you treat her Right. Pay attention The next time she doesn't because she's gonna feel insecure all the time Right, so I know it's she's a secure kid, but there are gonna be little moments like just now, right? So she has a need And like how did you deal with her? Just like pay attention to your interactions with her because Something about the way that you interact with her has made her a secure child And i'm not sure exactly what that looks like But I think you just got to look at the way you treat her and look at the way you treat yourself Look at the things within yourself that prompt you to action And look at the things within you that prompt you to action for her and they're very different With her you have a fundamental idea that she's okay And so all of your interactions with her are built on a foundation of this kid is awesome When it comes to yourself The foundation is very different Because you weren't treated like you were okay Right growing up you had this stepdad who you fucking knew he was looking for an excuse She was just looking for an excuse And your daughter Has that's just alien to the way that she's growing up. She has no idea What it was like But that's where security comes from Fate or god or the universe has given you a perfect example From how to move forward to here and she's in your own home and she's three years old Do for yourself what you do for her And whether you get a house or don't get a house whether it's a big house or a little house Whether you look beautiful or you look ugly it won't matter Got it doc How you feeling good good just happy good good Just good just um Yeah feeling good good. I'm happy to hear it. Yeah I'll leave you Yeah, go on. Yeah, i'll leave you with one last thought ali and then you can have one So the only thing that I feel sad about Is that you chase something that you don't need? Right that you're fine the way you are And all of your insecurities are false hoods that were instilled in you By people who didn't treat you the way that you should have been treated Right. Yeah, that makes sense. It's their estimation In their eyes you're lacking and then you learned how to look at yourself in the mirror and see what they saw But those fuckers are wrong, man And so Look at yourself the way that you look at your daughter both of You Last word is yours my friend The the last word is mine, yeah, yeah if you want to say last word for it uh, no, I just want to say thanks for having me on and it's uh just so good to uh have someone Jump in my brain like that. It was like i'm unexpected now. I was like man. There's nothing You're gonna tell me that shocks me. So nice. That was nice. It was nice Yeah, but yeah, okay Dr. Kay, thank you so much. Thank you. Allie. Thank you and seriously good luck with everything Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and hopefully um when this covid calms down I can see you at twitchcon or something. Yeah, you could love to oh fantastic And do you drink just curious? Do you drink you don't rarely? Okay, okay Yeah Just double checking. Okay. Dr. Kay, you've been a star. Thanks so much. I'll take everything. Thank you man Hey listen, good luck to you And I I really do hope you get a really nice house and you can throw your daughter a nice safe Fun birthday party or sleepover seriously. I wish for you all the best Allie, okay anytime if you ever need me just dm me. Uh, thanks for the team reaching out because it was just a shock to me It's just like they dm me haj light that be on dr. Kay's stream. I was like sure You know, I didn't you know, so I loved it. It was fantastic Okay, looks like your daughter's hungry, so i'll let you go man. Yeah, I'm gonna go there as well. Take care See you later. Bye. Um nice community you got. Bye