 I want to talk to y'all today a little bit about something that I call reintegration anxiety, which is kind of weird, okay? So this is what I noticed. Something weird happened, chat. So back at the start of the pandemic, there were, you know, everyone was like, oh, I'm stuck at home, like the Journal of the American Medical Association did a study that showed that depressive symptoms are 300% worse than they used to be. Anxiety was getting worse. People didn't know if they were going to be able to pay their bills. They didn't know what was going to happen to the economy. They didn't know if they were going to be able to pay their rent. And so everyone was like, oh my God, the mental impacts of COVID are so bad, man. They suck so hard. And now that things are starting to open up, it's kind of like weird because everyone was like, I can't wait for COVID to end. I can't wait for COVID to end. But now that COVID is maybe starting to end, I know that Delta variant is bad, but people are getting vaccinated. People are starting to opening, open things up. People are sort of like, okay, so are you thrilled that you're going to be back in school and hanging out with people socially? Something weird has happened, especially with a lot of the students that I work with, where they're kind of like, actually, I feel really anxious about reintegrating into society. What I hear from students that I work with is, I'm not sure I'm going to be able to do school anymore. I don't know if I can do school. And now that I can socialize with people, it's like, oh my God, I can't wait to socialize with people. And it's now when you think about socializing with people, you want to do it, but you feel really, really anxious about it. And it's really weird, but the best term that I can kind of come up with is something that I'd call reintegration anxiety. And so it's kind of weird, but there seems to be a new kind of anxiety where everyone's been waiting to get back into society. But at the same time, now that we're able to do it, it seems actually really hard to reintegrate into society. So what I'd like to do today is talk to you guys a little bit about this and sort of try to explain a little bit about how I understand it. Okay. So to begin with, when COVID hit, everyone was sort of like, kind of positive about it. Like people felt isolated, people felt depressed, people felt anxious about the future. They had difficulty maintaining social connections, and they actually turned to online communities to start to socialize with people. And the cool thing is that if you kind of look at data or not data, because there aren't really a whole lot of studies about this, but if you look at people from our community, what we found is that people who have robust online connections were actually a little bit resilient to the negative impacts of COVID. And what we did as a society is we turned to like more online interactions. And that's sort of a double-edged sword because research does show that spending a lot of time on social media actually has negative impacts on your mental health. And at the same time, we were kind of stuck because we couldn't spend time with people in the real world. So like, it was nice to have like Discord and Twitch and things like that gaming. And so it was sort of like a little bit of a double-edged sword where like gamers were somewhat resilient, but were engaging in more social anxiety. I mean, social media. So sometimes that can make mental health stuff worse. So it's kind of a wash. The interesting thing is that if you talk to people who engage a lot in online communities and like engage with people socially online, as opposed to the real world, what you find is when they go back out into the real world, you can form a real connection online. But when you go back out into the real world, it seems to be hard for people. And so what I found is that, especially now, like working with a lot of students that, you know, they've been hanging out on Discord for the last year, they've been doing online school and like Zoom classes and all this kind of stuff. And they've like hated it in some ways, but at the same time, it's been sort of like comforting in some ways. Oh, no. So when COVID started, everyone was like, there were huge impacts to our negative health. People felt isolated. They felt depressed. They felt anxious. You know, studies showed that like depression and anxiety was like three times worse than prior to COVID. The isolation was really, really messing with people. The gaming community was somewhat resilient to these effects, especially at the beginning, because we already had good online support systems. And the rest of the world shockingly switched over to like this online world where this is how we socialize. It was Zoom birthday parties and, you know, like hanging out with people over like Discord and WhatsApp and stuff like that. And so this was okay for a while, right? So people like, especially in the gaming community, we did okay for a while. But then as the pandemic wore on, people were like, I can't wait to get back in school. I can't wait to like see my friends again. This sucks. I'm trapped in my house. And so then something weird happened. Like now that things are opening up and we're like, hey, you can go socialize again. And like, you're going to be back in school. Like the people that I work with are like, wait a minute. I actually feel really, really uncomfortable with that stuff. And now they come to my office and they say things like, you know, I'm not sure I can actually do school anymore. I'm not sure like, like I got invited to a party, but like, I don't know if I even want to go. And people are really confused by this because they're like, you know, at the beginning of the pandemic, it's like, okay, we're going to be trapped for a couple of weeks. Like, I'm going to learn how to bake bread. I'm going to learn a new language. I'm going to like learn all this stuff. I'm going to take this as an opportunity. And then the isolation sets in the depression sets in. I'm a work on a project. And now that the world is opening up again, everyone's like, oh, God, thank God. Like that, oh, I can start doing things again. And now when you try to do things, like, it seems actually really, really hard to go out and like, get back into school. And I have students that come to me and are saying, I'm not sure I can do school anymore. Like I hate zoom school, but I don't know if I can actually cut it in real school. I have people who are like, I'm so isolated. I'm so lonely. I'm so depressed. Do you want to go to this party? No, I feel super anxious going to the party. So what's going on here? Why is this happening? And what can we do about it? So this is something that for lack of a better term, I call reintegration anxiety, which is sort of like this tendency to not be able to like go back into the world. And what I actually have found is that I think that it correlates with some interesting principles of neuroscience. Why is there a, there's a blanket in my door. Okay, so going back to where things are. So here's how here's my understanding of like how reintegration anxiety works. Okay. So when we start socializing with people online, what tends to happen is that our brain has certain like social circuits, which sometimes don't get used and so start to rust a little bit. So if we think about how our brain works, what we discover is that, you know, if you don't use a part of your brain, it kind of like starts to rust. So if I speak two languages, and then I don't speak one of those languages for a few years, what happens is that part of my brain is sort of like, oh, we don't need this anymore. So let's get rid of it. And what I found in people who interact a lot online is that there are so there are social circuits that start to go like dormant or rust. So there are parts of our brain that will look at body language, facial expression, tone, other things like even like physical touch, and use those as means to kind of socially reassure us. So when I when I interact with people a lot, there are circuits of my in my brain that are very active that are telling me, hey, these people like you like that they're sort of interpreting all of this information about people's body language and the way that they interact with me and their facial expressions and things like that. And it uses that information to reassure me. And what happens when we interact with people a lot online is those circuits of our brain kind of like don't get used, right? Because if I'm talking to people on a discord call, like sure, it may be a video chat. But especially if I'm playing games and stuff like I'm not going to be interpreting their body language and their facial expressions. And if we think about the way that our mind looks at a social situation and tells us whether to be anxious or not anxious, what it'll do is is include a lot of like information about stuff like facial expressions and body language. So when these circuits in our mind go dormant, what happens is we're left with a big question mark. And if you think about what anxiety is, the bigger the question mark is, the bigger your anxiety is going to be, because anxiety is all about uncertainty, right? So if I think about I'm anxious about going to the party, and I ask people like, you know, if I ask someone, why are you anxious about the party, they'll say things like, I don't know who's going to be there. I don't know if I'm going to say something stupid. I don't know if people are going to like me. So a lot of anxieties have to do with I don't know. You don't know what's going to happen. It's uncertain. And so as we sort of turn to online interaction, and some of these other circuits of our brain go dormant, what we're left with is more and more question marks. And the more we're left with question marks, the more likely we are to feel anxious. So now what's happened is we have these reassuring parts of our brain, which normally will help us feel comfortable in social situations that have basically been dormant for a year to a year and a half. And so I think this is part of the reason that we're experiencing what I call reintegration anxiety. We also sort of see this when it comes to online schooling. So like, you know, in school, it requires like particular faculties, like I have to wake up at a particular time, I have to like, you know, show up, I have to shower, I have to do these kinds of things, which online school sort of insulates me from and I don't have to do those things. So as those parts of our brain get rusty, we start to understandably start to feel somewhat concerned about being able to kind of reintegrate into regular school. And so what we kind of end up with is the situation where like, we're basically like out of practice integrating into the real world again. And since we're out of practice, this sort of results in anxiety. And so people sort of ask me, okay, what should I do about this, right? And so this is the kind of tricky part, but like, there's no way to artificially turn on those circuits again. And there's no way that I've been able to discover to sort of make it painless in terms of reintegrating into society. But what I have found is that people tend to do far better than they think they're going to do. And what I mean by that is that like, you know, if I'm working with, let's say like a college undergraduate who's like, oh, I'm not sure about like starting up a study group, because I don't know if the people are going to like me and stuff. And they're sort of envisioning all of these negative things. And what my experience has been is that if you can actually get yourself to go there, right, if you can show up there, you may have a lot of anxieties that are very hard to alleviate ahead of time. But the cool thing is it's almost like magic. But once you show up there, and your brain starts to like dust off these old circuits, like facial expression and body language, what happens is the anxiety kind of starts to melt away. It's almost like, you know, if I if I've gotten rusty in terms of speaking a language, if I show up in the country, it's going to be a little bit uncomfortable, because I don't really remember how to speak the language. But my brain will sort of start working for me and will start to activate. And it actually gets really, really easy for me to relearn the language. And so I may think that it'll take me three months to learn the language. But it actually turns out that after about a week, like my anxiety is way better, I've learned a lot, a lot, I may not be 100 back to 100% after a week, but it actually gets, it gets far easier and is far better than I expected it to be. So this is basically what I found in terms of reintegration anxiety. You know, just to kind of summarize, when we started COVID, people were really isolated and depressed and really wanted to get back and socialize and like go back to school and live a normal life. And now something really weird is happening, which is that like, as we're on the cusp of hopefully starting to live a normal life again, Delta variant aside, what we actually find is that people have a lot of difficulty reintegrating into society. They're concerned about being able to cut it in school. They're concerned about like, you know, socializing and feeling dumb and feeling out of practice and things like that. And the good news is that it's actually seems to be somewhat solvable. The other thing that I want to let people know is that this appears to be a relatively normal and shared experience for most of society. So it seems like, you know, most of the university students that I work with are experiencing something like this. And the good news is that, you know, you may be kind of anxious in terms of like socially integrating with people. And it turns out that they're anxious too. So one of the tips that I'll give the, you know, like my university students is actually to tell people, be like, hey, I've been cooped up for a year. And I'm actually looking forward to like making new friends. Like if you meet like a group of people, right, you can say, hey, I'm looking forward to making new friends. I'm curious, like how other people feel about that. And what I actually find is it's like incredibly relieving to everyone in the group when one person says that, because we're all in the same boat and all it takes is like one person to like, you know, crack the damn a little bit. And then everyone's super relieved. They're like, yeah, man, like, absolutely, let's hang out. And all you have to do is kind of take that first step. And then like, it's actually really easy to kind of get everyone on the same page. And people seem to be excited. They're anxious. They don't know if you want to be friends with them, right? Like, no one knows everyone's like, oh my God, I want friends, but I don't know if this person wants to be friends with me. Am I too weird? Have I been like enclosed in my room too long? Is it like awkward? Do people not like me anymore? This is what reintegration anxiety is. And as you kind of bring awareness to it, it turns out that actually like it gets better, like way faster than you may have thought. So the first thing is, you know, as COVID is ending, if you, you guys have been like isolated and like wanting to get back into society, it's completely normal to feel a little bit confused about that and like be surprised by, oh, I really want to make friends, but I feel like really anxious. And I feel like people may think I'm stupid or I've gotten rusty. There's probably a neuroscience reason for that. It's probably because you have circuits in your brain that normally are able to reassure you and sort of can't right now because they've gotten kind of like they've turned off. They'll turn back on, but it may be a little bit painful for you to tolerate that anxiety. And it does seem to get better. School is sort of also seems to be kind of that way, but jury's a little bit out there because now we're into the summer. So most people aren't in active school, but for the people who have reintegrated and like sort of started school back in March or April, some places started in-person classes, then I noticed that people also had reintegration anxiety and it kind of got better. Yeah, so someone's asking, what if you had social anxiety before and it's worse now during COVID? I think I've seen the same thing. So the reason it's worse as far as I can tell is because like we've gotten rusty socially. So what I've seen in my patients with social anxiety is that they've gone back to their pre-COVID state and actually like I'd say maybe a third of them have actually gotten better like post-COVID. It's kind of weird. I don't understand that myself, but like a third people seem to be better than their baseline. What about overall confidence? I don't feel like I've lost social skills as much as confidence. So this is a great question because that's exactly how it manifests. So if you think about what is the nature of confidence in your mind, what circuits in your brain lead you to confidence? And so what I found is actually that like a lot of our confidence comes from sort of mirroring from the outside world. So when I walk into a room and everyone's like, yay, Dr. K is here. That's going to help me feel a little bit more confident. So those are the kinds of signals that we haven't gotten. We haven't gotten reinforcement in our ability to feel confident about ourselves. And so in the absence of that reinforcement, this reintegration anxiety manifests as a lack of subjectively feeling confident. The good news is that for people who seem to lack that confidence as they integrate, just they kind of have to understand that you're going to feel pretty anxious, but just show up and it seems to get better relatively quickly. So this is when someone says, so it will just get better. I know it sounds shocking, but that has largely been our experience. So when it'll just get better, if you expose yourself to social situations, right? If you go into situations and you start talking to people, you start hanging out with people, if you see facial expressions and body language, then chances are this will start to go away or will be at like a pre COVID baseline. So someone's asking, aspiring lawn clippings is asking, I quit my study, how will it not spiral in a gap year? So if you have a gap year and you quit studying, there's a decent chance it will spiral unless you have a good amount of structure or something to replace it with. So you got to be careful about taking gap years because sometimes people do spiral, right? When it comes to a gap year, some people really flounder in the lack of structure and some people can really like, some people take a break and really enjoy it and they view it as a vacation. Other people will use it as an opportunity to learn skills or projects and just grow in a space outside of school. Other people will actually spiral in gap years. So it's absolutely something you need to be careful about. Someone's asking how fast do you unrest? Honestly, I say it gets like 50% better in a week. That's what I've seen. And like in two weeks, you're like 80% there. And then maybe in a month, you're like back to normal. So oxymoron indeed asks, what if it doesn't go away even after trying to reintegrate? That is the anxiety. You guys see that? What if? What if it doesn't get better? Oh my God. But like what if it does? Then it's a non-issue. So this is the nature of anxiety. So people are like, what if it doesn't get better? That is a product of the anxiety. You guys see that? Like it's a completely normal thought. But I can answer that question. Then I'll say, well, then there's a decent chance that this will happen. And then your anxiety will say, but what if that doesn't work? And what if that doesn't work? And what if that doesn't work? Your anxiety will, any reassurance that I give you, your anxiety will find something else to be anxious about, right? Because reassurance doesn't actually help that much with anxiety. So as long as the root of the anxiety is there, you're going to find some way to be concerned about a what if in the future. And this is the really tricky thing about anxiety, because anxiety says, what if that doesn't work? And then as long as that thought is there, do you actually take that first step? So this person is asking, what if it, what if my anxiety doesn't go away after reintegrating? And so as long as that thought is there, will you try to reintegrate? And this is why anxiety controls your life. This is why anxiety can be so crippling, because it's so worried. It wants a complete solution before you take the first step. And so this is why you're stuck, because there's like, there's no way I can give you a hundred percent guarantee that everything will work out. And if you're waiting for that 100% guarantee for the last thing to happen before you take the first step, then your life will be controlled by anxiety.