 So, um, so I mean, my experience has been that oftentimes attractiveness, especially for women, gets them a bad shake. We're good to go. Okay, so do do people know what sparked you coming on? Do people know this? Or should we? Well, I think maybe some people in chat do. But I think some people might have the wrong impression. So why don't you tell us what happened and what we're doing today? Okay, so I, how do I put this in a without misconstruing again? So I made a tweet that people didn't agree with, and that's totally fine. They're not. No one has to agree with anything I say. That's how it is. But people took it in the wrong light, basically called me sexist. And I guess the main issue here is that it got put into a bigger streamers discord that basically is like known for like a negative community and also on the subreddit that can be somewhat negative as well. So it turned into me getting like death threats, basically like in my DMs and stuff and then people making Twitter accounts solely like literally, the account was just to hate on me. Like, that's what the whole account was made for, which is so strange to me. I'm like, okay, like, you know, I've dealt with it in small doses, but never in like, big groups of people. So yeah, so I think that's the big issue is just for me, I don't take it too personally, because they don't know me personally. I do a pretty good job of not letting it affect me because I don't check the links to like, the forums or anything. So the only way I knew that that even happens is because people told me and because I started receiving like lots of nasty messages is out of the blue because like, I don't even stream anymore. So it happened whenever I would stream every once in a while. And it's like, okay, whatever, but I was like, where is this coming from? And so yeah, whenever that happened, it's just, I think what bothers me more is I tried too hard to figure out what's going on in their mind. And so that's like what sticks with me. It's not what they're saying about me. It's not like, it's not that, you know, it's bothering me like, oh my gosh, like, what do people think about me? It's more like, what is compelling them to do this? Like, yeah. Okay. So let's just, can I just ask you to be a little bit more specific? So like, what happened? What did you say? And what do you, why do you think what you said rubbed people so far as to? Yeah. So what I said was, and I'm going to emphasize part of it because I think this is the part that people did not read. I just said, so if like a girl is dating a guy and he's not doing anything, like that's the part. Not doing anything, like not putting any effort or anything like that. And she's just completely like taking care of him. Like that's his mom. Okay. I just said as a joke. And then people got super mad at that and called me sexist, which I'm not quite sure which way they were calling me that anyways, because to me it was more like, I hope that girls would date someone who is putting an equal effort as them. You know, if that's something they like find a priority, which personally I do, I think maybe that's where my standards come into play versus other people's and everyone's allowed to have their own standards, agree on different things. Yeah. And then on the other hand, I would hope, I would always hope to help someone figure out what they want to do. And I think a lot of people in my personal life would know that as well. That if someone's not motivated for something, like even if I can't help them, because I mean you can't help someone who doesn't want to have help. So I would still want to be like, oh, maybe you'd be interested in this or like here's some options for this. And so I hope either side, like no one would just be sitting there doing nothing because I think that just makes you unhappy in general. So I think that might have been the part that a lot of people related to and think maybe I was kind of shit talking that. I'm sorry, what are they relating to? I think maybe they're relating to not having something that brings them motivation or happiness in their life. Because I feel like that could be a population that it got. The reason I think that's the population that got advertised to is just because I knew that it did get put in a streamers discord that was, you know, who else would come and attack people for no reason? Like not happy people, not people who are doing something in their life that, you know, they wouldn't have time to do that. They wouldn't care enough to do it. And I think generally whenever somebody just disagrees with someone, they just kind of move on because I know a thing. I see things that I disagree with all the time. And I'm just like, okay, like that's fine. So it sounds like like there are a couple of different things going on. One is that like, so you're allowed to disagree with anyone on the Internet and you're going to disagree with anyone on the Internet. But something about what you said rubbed people the wrong way to the extent of evoking some sort of like response or action. Right, right. Yeah. And what do you think you evoked in them? I think I'm trying to find the right word for it, but maybe a feeling that they're not good enough in some part of their life. Okay. And it could have to do, you know, I don't know, but it could have to do with having a girlfriend or it could have to do with they didn't feel they were being successful in some part of their life. Yeah, I think there's some void there, which like I think we all experienced that. I mean, I know I have too. So it's not like it's like I'm looking down on anyone. It's just I think that's probably what piss people off. Okay. So, you know, it's it seemed like so I from from what I'm just trying to find the Twitter exchange because I don't remember exactly what it said. But, you know, so my recollection was that you made a statement that, you know, about women dating men who are basically not doing anything in life. And then you're you're their mom. And then someone essentially reversed the genders. Right. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then and then they sort of said that if a guy is dating a girl who isn't putting anything in, then they're you're their dad. And then you disagreed with that. Yeah, that has to do with just my personal a mix of personal standards. And because they kind of irritated me by just like trying to irritate me. Okay. It got to me and I was just like, like, that's annoying. And just like replied kind of like, you know, I don't know. I was just trying. I mean, you know how people are. They get in that. But, yeah. So I think people took that the wrong way, too. But how do you think they took it? I'm not honestly, I'm not quite sure. That's kind of where it's been getting to me. I don't know why that made people so angry. So I don't know what actually is going on in their head. Absolutely. Completely fair. So, you know, we were talking about how when something strikes a chord with you, it evokes people to like argue or disagree. Yeah. So what about what that person said struck a chord with you so that you tweeted back? Right. Exactly. I think the same thing happened there. And I guess before I answer that, it's like that's I know where to stop myself, I guess, because like I could be feisty or whatever. But I always try to keep it in check. And I know like you need to be respectful of other people. So I think what struck a chord with me there is that, of course, like a disagreement. But more so, I had also started receiving DMs from like the person who tweeted that and also other people. And they were like starting to come at me with like the death threats and stuff already. And so I was like that that just made me mad. You know, I was like, OK, well, I'm not going to not stand up for myself in a way. So yeah, I think there's always a fine line of like, do you let people walk all over you and not respond and not give them satisfaction that way? Or do you stand up for yourself a little bit and you never know where that's going to go? OK. So yeah, I guess that's where. Do you think that the people who are messaging you are in their mind standing up for themselves in some way? I think they could be, actually. Yeah. So not that they're going like I mean, I'm not going the wrong way. And then, yeah, and then I'm going to apply for like a master's program before post back. OK. Yeah. Before post back? No, I'm going to apply for a post back before med school. OK. But I mean, if you've done OK, so it looks like we're back. OK, so I think some people were confused about what you were saying. So is it I'm going to just show people the tweets? Is that OK? Yeah, that's fine. OK, just so because I think people are confused because we're like referencing weird stuff. Oh, yeah. So I'm going to just do this real quick. So these are the tweets. Chat. This Bud Light ad. What? Is there an ad? OK. So these are the tweets. Right. So Farrell says some girls are really out here dating boys with no job, not in school, having to pay his rent and food and then call that a relationship. Girl, you're his mom. I think that that's funny. Some dudes be dating girls with no job, not in school, having to pay her rent and food and call that relationship. Boy, you're her dad. And then you responded with doesn't work that way. I'll try again. Well, OK. So hopefully people saw that. And now you guys understand what we're talking about. So I think Farrell, like here's you know, so I think you what you said makes a lot of sense in terms of like you're striking a chord with people. Yeah, for sure. And you know, there's a certain amount of you can also use the language of like, you know, how much do you fight against the Internet? How much do you sort of take things like let things slide? How much do you stick up for yourself? And I don't think that, you know, we can talk a little bit about Internet trolls. But you know, so I wonder, like, do you so when I when I read something like this in general, like when I read statements where one gender has been so if you take a statement and then you just change out the gender of people's reaction towards it differs depending on which gender you're talking about, sometimes that appears to people to be like a double standard. What do you think? Yeah, I can see it. I can see that for sure. And that's again where I think it got kind of misconstrued because I wasn't meaning it that way, but I can like 100 percent see how it was taken that way. How did you mean? How did you mean your disagreement? Yeah, so I kind of said it earlier. I don't know if it was buffering then, but I meant it as in like I think both sides should put in the effort, you know, I mean, it doesn't, you know, it doesn't just apply to like a guy and a girl relationship, you know, girl and girl guy, whatever. So I think both sides should put in effort equally on how they agreed as well. You know, like some for some people, they may want like one person to be the provider and one person not be or both or whatever. I think just as long as no one's feeling like minimized in the relationship, I think that makes a good relationship. So as long as you can agree and openly communicate. And I think that's more what I meant is whenever I was saying it, it was more being like maybe that wasn't something that was agreed on beforehand. And you know, the guy isn't motivated to do anything with his life. And to me, like if that was my situation, I would just feel at a disadvantage. Like I was doing everything and then potentially, you know, having to raise kids at the same time and like not having someone who wouldn't want to contribute in any way. I just yeah, so that would just be a personal issue for me. And like, you know, no one has to agree with that either. So yeah, I mean, it sounds like what you're kind of saying is that, you know, you're treating so this is I think a big problem with Twitter is that like, you know, people aren't allowed to have nuanced and deep views on Twitter, right? Everything is right. Like that's the sentence I said. That's exactly what I meant. That's it. Yeah. And that's just kind of how Twitter is. And I think that's why it's funny. Like, I don't know if you guys ever read stuff on like Twit Longer, but I love Twit Longer. Yeah, because you actually get to explain yourself. Yeah. There was a there was a really great I don't know if you guys are following any of this like Hong Kong blizzard controversy like it was big a couple of weeks ago. But there was a Hearthstone player who posted something on Twit Longer, which I thought was really good. And he was kind of talking about different sides of the issue. But so so like Farrell, so you're not streaming anymore. I'm not. Have you read the comments on the Reddit thread? I have not. OK. That's where I keep my sanity. Yeah. So the comments on the Reddit thread are not very nice. And yeah, I was just but it sounds like people are messaging you a lot of this stuff. How do you handle that? Like, how does that make you like how? I've never gotten a death threat DM before, so I don't know how that feels. How does that feel? Well, I got one the first day I ever streamed, so I was prepared for it a little bit. Why do you think you got one the first day you streamed? I'm not quite sure. I just wouldn't told someone I wouldn't play a game with them. And all of a sudden, that was the end of the world for them. So not quite sure on that one. But I didn't I didn't do anything controversial there. But yes, I think in small doses, like. I don't I don't take them seriously other than just be like, well, you know, I mean, I take my safety seriously, but at the same time. I'm not going to take it to heart because I feel like that's just unhealthy for me in the long run. Of course, it gets to me a little bit like how can you sit there and read that and it not get to you? Yeah, I have no idea. Yeah, but I think I'm doing a pretty good job of it. Yeah, I mean, it sounds like you're handling it pretty well. I think I've just seen it happen to other people so many times. It's really unfortunate. Like that mob mentality sort of thing, you know, if they can hop on that and just like have that group of people that's attacking one person and just make like a villain out of them, they feel good about themselves, which I'm not sure why on that, too. That's that's what gets to me. I'm like, I don't know why that makes you feel good. So that gets to me, not the exact like message that I'm receiving. I'm just like, it's annoying because I have to put everything on private and like I'm not able to interact with the people I normally interact with normal. Sure. Yeah, in a normal circumstance. So would you say that it almost sounds like by by undermining this or attacking the. How can I say this? Attacking someone else makes you feel better about your insecurities. That's what I assume the reason is, but I'm like, there has to be something else. Like I'm sure for each person, it's a different specific reason. So it's like I can't figure it out for everyone. So which sucks. Like I want to. Yeah, I don't know why I want to, but I do. I'm kind of curious about this whole like brigading thing because I think that the, you know, the Internet really loves their pitchforks. They like, man, do they love their pitchforks. And I'm kind of curious. I mentioned this on stream one or two times before, but, you know, I would love to talk to someone who is actually like a pitchfork wielding Internet troll. Yeah, yeah. And I'd love to understand, you know, when you wield your pitchfork on the Internet and then you go and you burn a witch, like, what does that do for you? Yeah. And I just don't understand. I think the interesting thing is that, you know, when you. This is kind of like a random thought, but like when you when we call people trolls on the Internet, I wonder if in a weird way that actually is attacking them. And does that make us feel good about ourselves? Right. I feel like I had a different view on this when I was streaming because they're like, oh, it's just trolls. But I feel like it's almost actually a neutral term for them because if you just say it's just trolls, you're just dismissing it. Like, I guess for them, it's like, oh, you're not important. But at the same time, I think that just doesn't do it justice. Like, I could sit there and have people whenever I did stream in my chat saying awful things, they're like, oh, just ignore it. It's just trolls. You aren't supposed to feel anything about it because they don't matter. Well, first of all, like any person matters. So the person on the other side of that does matter. And secondly, my feelings also matter. So it's just this weird disconnect between the person and the troll. Yeah, it sounds like what happens is that people are sort of getting acclimatized to trolls' behavior. So they just sort of let it slide and they kind of factor it in into the norm. Yeah, I almost think that with people not taking it seriously, that they will even take it farther for people to take them seriously. Why do you think that is? Well, I think their main thing, whatever their individual reasons are, is just to be heard because maybe they don't feel like that in their everyday life. And so whenever people, you know, they think they're, I mean, there's no good way to go about it, but they think they're doing the right thing by not responding to someone. But in the long term, is that the best thing? You know, like, because they're just going to keep doing it and they're going to do it for the response and until they get a response. So something has to change. I don't know what it is, but something has to change where they no longer feel the need to do that. So, I mean, I think, you know, I wonder a little bit about people in streamer talking about stuff like attention and things like that. I mean, so I think like trolling on the internet is a big problem. And I'm wondering, like, Farrell, what do you think we can do about it? Oh, man. I thought about this a lot, actually, because especially when I was streaming. Yeah, especially when I was streaming, because it was more of a, I always want a positive atmosphere, like whenever I was streaming or like even on like social media now or whatever I'm active in, like, I always want to keep it to where people feel comfortable enough to be themselves and they don't feel judged and they feel like, you know, just a happy place. Like, I don't want to be that space where the like, quote unquote, trolls like build up and go attack someone. So, um, I, the way I did one little thing, to try to help with that is made like, I mean, I guess pretty much what like your discord is completely, but like a safe space channel in my discord where anyone could just talk about their problems and not feel judged because it's really hard to do on stream if you're not doing what you do. Like, I can't even give them good advice because I'm not a psychiatrist. So it's like, I would try my best to help everyone. But the best way for me to do that is allow them a space to like, just maybe let it out to a positive group of people. What you're saying is to create a space where a troll feels safe. So like a cave, So like a cave. I think a cave where they can. Yes, I made a little cave for them. Yeah. So let's, let's make a, let's make a troll cave on our, our discord. Yeah. But I mean, honestly, like, I don't know any other like way that's better than just literally the stream that would combat it because I don't think people listen. Can I, can I ask you for a bizarre favor? Okay. So Farrell, if you get a DM again, like, so I don't, I want you to think about this before you agree to it because I don't know if this is going to be good or bad. So generally speaking, when you get a death threat, you, you just ignore them, right? Because any kind of response. Yeah. So any kind of response that you give them is going to probably evoke more behavior. Yeah. And, and at the same time, like I wish there was some way that I could respond to them. And I don't know, or actually maybe, maybe this, maybe if they've sent you a DM instead of you responding directly, just tell them that, that I want to talk to them or tell me who they are. And then I'll message them personally. Okay. And that I'd like to talk to them because I, you know, because I think, I think if they're approaching you, then like, I would love it if you could just send them my way, because I would love to hear their side of the story. Like, why, why do they feel so angry about what you said? Do they feel like it's a double standard? Like some people in Twitch chat feel like it's a double standard. Yeah, I can see that. And yeah, I mean, so like, I, you know, I just, I send them my way. Okay. I can do that. That would be very interesting. But at the same time, like I don't, you know, I don't want you to engage with them and open yourself up to like further kinds of stuff. So if you feel like it's safe or if you want to post something on like whatever you feel comfortable with, you can even just email me their like their names on Discord. Like they were DMing you on Discord or Twitter. Oh, no. So I can't answer on Instagram because once you open a message, you pretty much have to keep it open. Well, I guess unless I block them. But you can do it on Twitter or I closed off pretty much everything. So I haven't gotten anything in a while, but I'm sure I have a few lying around still that I didn't get to block. Yeah, so I can just. Oh, so you said that all this stuff came from a Discord, right? There's a streamer who. Yes, but I can't say who or else you might get banned. So. Okay. Yeah. I don't want you to say who because I might get banned, but help me understand how that works. Why would I get banned for you saying someone's? So, well, maybe not, but it's apparently. Take a chance, but I just want to understand. Yeah. I think it's against TOS to kind of like talk negatively about other Twitch partners. So I see. Yeah, so that's why. So, but then why don't they get banned for? That's a good question. I don't think they can. So I don't think they can get banned on their community unless they themselves are doing something. So if the streamer didn't send people after me, because like he probably didn't even check his Discord so big. Yeah. But yeah, then what can they do? You know, and these people are subscribing to these people. So. Okay, so I'm just trying to figure out like how does. Yeah, so how do how does a troll contact me? That's the question. So it looks like they can they can message us on Twitter. You guys can sign up on the about me section of our Twitch. But I mean, I genuinely do want to understand like other people's perspectives on this issue. And I think that, you know, thank you for coming on and sort of sharing your thoughts. Was there something in particular like did you I know we'd sort of floated the idea of talking about relationships in general, but I feel like you kind of explained your perspective. Yeah. Yeah, I think something that everyone can agree on if they want a healthy relationship was just open communication, having effort both ways in whatever form that may be. Yeah. I think that's a non-controversial way to be a relationship, right? Like that's pretty normal. I would agree. So I'm going to ask Twitch chat if they have questions for you. Okay. Or us. But did you have anything else that you wanted to share? I mean, I feel like you've explained things pretty well. Yeah, not not too much. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So you stopped streaming. What's that about? Is that a question for me? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just waiting. I'm buying time. We're still live. Yeah. So, okay. So I stopped streaming partially because I wasn't enjoying it. Okay. The reason I wasn't enjoying it is because I wasn't able to find a way to actually help people with my stream. Like, yeah, maybe I was providing entertainment value or whatever. But for me, I always want to be able to actually impact someone's life in a way with anything I do. So I was avoiding med school because that's why I came on the first stream partially. Yeah. I don't feel like I'm good enough to go or whatever. So yeah. So I decided- We just abuse you of that notion, right? Yes. No. I don't care how long it takes me. I'm going to get there. So that's why I stopped streaming as well because it just- Good for you, Farrell. I thought about what was beneficial to me and it wasn't. So yeah. If you're just offline, you're welcome to contact me because there's a fair number of people in our community who are trying to sort of get a handle on their life. And we've been able to, I think, support them a little bit in getting to their career goals. And some of those include med school. So we have our fingers crossed for a couple of people that are applying to Cycle. And unfortunately, that means that they'll probably stop helping us out because they'll be busy. But if there's any way that I can personally help you figure things out or, even if you want, like some people I've had sort of help out with Healthy Gamer and that if they'll do some research or something like that, and then I can write them a letter. Right, right. And things like that. So if you, and I know you're kind of involved in our Recovery Coach Program, so I think that is a great in and you could put that on your application. Awesome. But it sounds like you're still over a year away from applying, right? Right, right. Yeah. So as things get down the road and if there's some way we can help, let us know. Awesome. Thanks. Because I think it's awesome, the mission that you kind of adopted for yourself to help the world. Yeah. Help the internet trolls. And we'd love to support you. And I think a lot of people in chat are sending positive vibes your way. Thank you. I need it. And then I guess someone was asking, have you stopped using social media because of everything that happened? That's an interesting answer. So I took a step away from it only just because it was like too much spamming for me and I'm in the middle of midterm. So it's like a bit distracting for me to deal with anything extra than what I normally do. And I didn't because in my mind I was like, well, the trolls would win if I did. So I'm not. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want the trolls to win. Yeah. So yes and no. More for my own sake for just exams right now. So then someone asks, why did Farrell disagree with the tweet if she agrees that both sides should put in effort, care to elaborate? Yeah. So well, I don't know if you heard what I said earlier, but I was a little bit irritated that somebody like tweeting that back to me and just like that's when all this stuff started. So partially out of irritation. Secondly, I guess if they were like just referring to financially or whatever, that's personally something I wouldn't be against for myself. So that's why. But if someone else wanted that, I don't care. I'm going to jump in and sort of qualify that because I think you mentioned this earlier, Farrell. So I think my sense is that something that they said and we've talked about, a lot of people have challenges in terms of their confidence and their worth and stuff like that. And I know that it sounds like you're making great strides and sort of figuring out who you are and you're kind of saying like, come hell. Come hell or high water, you're going to end up going to medical school. And I think that's a wonderful attitude to have. And at the same time, if I heard you correctly, I think something that they said may have struck a personal chord with you. Yeah. So what you were really responding to is that like what they said felt like a little bit of a personal attack, which it may not have been intended that way. But at the same time, sometimes I think that happens where people make a generalization and we feel like they're talking about us or like strikes a chord. Yeah. I mean, that's probably what they thought too. So it was probably just a both way like little battle there. Yeah. So that's the interesting theme of this is it sounds like a lot of what you were imagining they experienced, maybe you understand because you were experiencing it too. I think it sounds like you sort of channel a lot of those impulses and feelings in a slightly more productive way. I don't, you know, we don't really know because we haven't asked. Are you DMing people death threats? Okay. Well, not that, but you know, just playing too much League of Legends. Sure. Talk about toxicity. Okay. So someone else asks, do you think that the fact that she is attractive fueled the hate to spread even more? And if yes, why do you think that is? What do you think, Farrell? Oh, well, thank you. First of all, also, yes, I think so. Just because I think this happens a lot just with streamers in general. They're like, oh, it's a pretty girl playing games. You know, people just come up with all their assumptions already. So I'm not quite sure how that might have fueled it, but I think it did. So, so I mean, my experience has been that oftentimes attractiveness, especially for women, gets them a bad shake. Yeah, because I think in real life, people don't take me seriously. For things like, oh, well, you're just blonde or like this is this. And it's like, I have to prove myself like two times more than other people just to be taken seriously or for people to think that I'm smart or like, whatever. So yeah, it's bizarre. I think I've heard, so I'm a psychiatrist. So I talk to people about what's stressful in their lives. And the number of times that I've heard from men in workplaces about how attractive women are primarily mistreated by other women in the workplace is staggering. Like the most common, and this is just anecdotal. So I don't know. I mean, maybe there's studies about this. I'm not familiar with them, but it seems that like most of the mistreatment that I hear people complain about of women in the workplace, it's more commonly from other women than it is from men, which doesn't mean that women don't mistreat men in the workplace or vice versa. But the most bizarre thing that I've, you know, when people just talk to me about the dynamics of their workplace, it seems like, especially the women, for example, like my female patients feel far more attacked by their female colleagues and female superiors than the other way, than by men in their workplaces, which is really strange. I don't really get that. Yeah. But it's interesting because it was only men who were mad at my tweet, not women. So that's why whenever I was like called sexist, I was like, I was confused with direction they thought I was because I got a lot of DMs from other women who were like, I totally agree with you. And that made me feel like super horrible about myself. Like just dating someone who wasn't putting in any effort in their life at all. So I was like, yes. So just to hear from, so I know that there are a couple of women in our chat who seem to be agreeing that women are pretty horrible to each other. And a lot of women I work with tend to snitch on each other, even though they're all friends outside of work. So I'm not quite sure what's going on there. So I think we have one or two more questions. Is that okay for you, Farrell? Oh, yeah, that's fine. You have studying that you need to be doing instead? I do, but it's okay. So what would the trolls call themselves who were hating on Farrell Cat? What's the proper term they would call themselves? How do you think a troll sees themselves? Yeah. I mean, I have some thoughts on that. But I mean, I assume they're, I mean, I feel like everyone feels about themselves. It's just to what degree they act on it, you know, lacking in some area. And I guess due to that tweet, maybe they were just lacking in an area that I may have sparked. So let me ask you this, Farrell. How did you feel when you tweeted your response to that other tweet? Do you remember how you felt? I think I just rolled my eyes, honestly, and kind of moved on. But I think it was more of I felt like I had to stand up for myself sort of thing. So I'm not sure if that's what they're feeling, but it might be. So my guess is that they would feel righteous. Yeah, that makes sense. I think I can describe both sides for sure. Yeah. I mean, I think that like when people, you know, they feel like they're... So the sense that I get is there was like, there's a sense of like, correcting the wrong. There's like fixing an injustice. Right, right, right. Yeah. And then someone was asking me specifically, what do I think about the gender reversal tweet? I mean, I think Farrell's explanation makes sense. But at the same time, I think taken on face value, it looks like a double standard, right? There's just not the nuance. Yeah, I can totally see that. It's not like I just sat back and was like, I'm right, y'all are stupid. Of course, like with any criticism, I think there's a line where you have to say, is am I going to take this as constructive criticism? Is that what it is? Or is it just straight hatred? Yeah. So I don't know. Like right now, I'm putting myself in a pretty uncomfortable position being here. So I like to do that to myself just to keep myself in check and like keep growing, I guess. That's kind of what I'm like. Yeah. I think it's, you know, I'm grateful you came on and I can imagine that you're risking the wrath of the internet. So it's actually, you know, kind of ballsy move on your part. But I'm glad you're talking about things openly and also demonstrating some degree of like curiosity about yourself and other people. Yeah, for sure. And I think that a lot of people do sort of get brigaded by the internet. And it can be for all kinds of random shit. Yeah. You never know what people are going to see and what's going to pull up and what's going to bring you attention. So yeah. So I think the last question we're going to do today, someone was asking me how do I respond personally to the role reversal tweet? And I think so. I will say that I think that there's a lot of discrimination that does go on against men. I think men and women are treated differently in our society. And sometimes that's to the benefit of men and sometimes it's to the benefit of women. I'm not trying to say that either one is correct, but I do think that. So I think a very common mistake that a lot of people make is that discrimination is like a seesaw. And so that if you discriminate towards a particular group, it means that the other group is not discriminated against. And I do believe that things like privilege and stuff like that are statistically real. So for example, like, you know, if you just look at data on like race and jail times and things like that, like I remember one of the most shocking things that I didn't even realize. So I was working in a jail and on the third week of working in the jail, I was like, something was weird about something was different about today. And I was trying to figure out, like, what is it that's different about today? What is it different? That's different about today. And finally, it hit me. On the third Thursday, so I had been working in the jail now for 14 days, was the first time I saw a white person as an inmate. And so like, there's that just it blew my mind. Like, it was like, I couldn't understand, like, it took me a little while to realize, like, what was what was different about that? Oh, he was white. And that's when it was just shocking, because everyone else was like Hispanic or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or black. And so I do think that there is, you know, racism and discrimination. I think the flip side of it is that I do think sometimes privileged classes or genders oftentimes get sort of a bad rap. So, for example, like eight out of every 10 suicides in this country are men. So more men have killed themselves in the last year than in the last decade of armed conflict in the United States. So you take every casualty of war that the U.S. has suffered from in the last decade, and more men chose to kill themselves in the last year. So that to me is like shocking. And then the other thing is, I mean, I work with some people who are executives at major companies, and they actually have policies that that they sort of have standing policies to preferentially promote women and minorities. And so it's kind of odd. I mean, they're not never going to say it openly because that'll get that'll get them sued. But that's discrimination against men does happen. Yeah, for sure. And I don't think that there are a lot of other statistics like I'm not I'm not like a red pill kind of guy or anything like that. But I think if you look at data, you can understand that it's possible for like multiple classes. So I'm in some ways I'm in minority. In some ways, I'm I'm a privileged class. So I'm like an Indian doctor, of which there are no shortages. And at the same time, you know, statistically, I was discriminated against when I applied to medical school, because on average, if you're Indian or Asian, you have to score two points higher than the average MCAT score. I don't know what the scores are now. But back when I was like, so Indians have to score two points higher in order to get in. And depending on your race, you actually have to have a different MCAT score. I'm not saying that that's fair or unfair. I think if we just look at it, a lot of people make arguments about, you know, that sort of I think these arguments are valid that like, that sort of ends up working out because like education was highly emphasized in my household. And I had a lot of advantages that sort of enabled me to score higher at the same time. You know, it is it is kind of a differential quantitative. The way that my scores are looked at or influenced based on my gender, which I think implies that my gender is people I'm being discriminated against. Is that OK? I don't know. So that's kind of my long-ass question. I'm sorry, long answer. But any closing thoughts, Farrell? I don't think so. By the way, you may be discriminated against when you apply to medical school, because at this point, more than 50% of women are more than 50% of medical students or women. So before long, men may actually have an advantage if things if trends continue going the way they are. Yeah. So apply fast. Yeah, I'm trying. Well, thanks a lot, Farrell, for coming on. And, you know, thank you for facing the courage of the Internet. And if you do happen to engage with any trolls, feel free to send them my way. And I will welcome them with open arms. But don't respond to them if you feel like that's going to inflame them further. All right, don't worry. Lastly, if anyone knows trolls that we could kind of get in touch with, you know, let us know. Message your local trolls. Yeah, message your local trolls and tell them that we want to create a cave for them. Yeah. Yeah, so if you used to be a troll, like you should think about coming on and let's talk about the way that you used to be. And also, if you have friends who are still trolls, like have them come on, too. Because I want to talk to trolls. I think trolls are, I think they're, as Farrell pointed out, I think a lot of them are suffering. Great, there's still trolls in here. Okay, well, thanks a lot, Farrell. And good luck with school and stuff. And, you know, if you decide to go to medical school in the end, or if you end up getting in, you should seriously consider not being a psychiatrist. All right. Take care. All right, bye. you