 But the interesting thing is when people chase confidence what they chase if they're looking to be more confident What they chase is achievement, right? They think oh if I achieve then I will be more confident which is missing the point Because that's actually what it actually does is places your value in yourself to be conditional on your success And that actually is the opposite of confidence Yeah, so how you been? Good Thank you for coming back. Yeah, thanks for having me Yeah, is there something in particular you wanted to talk about today? Uh, not like specific specific Hmm? Um Yeah, nothing like particular Yeah, nothing like particular in mind maybe like Slightly about confidence perhaps but other than that like there's no clear general or no clear direction. I guess Yeah, so let's I think confidence is a great place to start. What do you think? Okay, sure. Yeah. Yeah, so tell me a little bit about uh Confidence and you know what you were what you were thinking about when you Um, I just feel like I have very low confidence and I um And just really not just want to explore that. I guess I don't really know why or like how maybe it was like I was raised. I don't know. Yeah, absolutely dude. Yeah, that's such an awesome topic Because I think confidence is like something that we don't really understand I think confidence is like something that we don't really understand right? So we like know that some people have confidence Some people feel like they don't have confidence. But like what is it? Where does it come from? Why do some people have it? Why do some people not have it? How to get it if you don't have it Those all sound like really really important things to explore to me. What do you think? Yeah Okay, so tell me a little bit about what when you say you may not have very high confidence what? Let's start with this. How do you know? What do you experience that makes you think that you don't have low confidence? well Well, tostoy says have some more confidence you bitch Like I think that's like one to start um I feel like Basically, a lot of my friends will say a lot of great things about me whenever I struggle to I guess Have a positive view of myself and I just i'm very much like, huh? Like I don't really see it the same way that they do um and Yeah, I don't know. That's just like yeah, I uh kind of don't really see like much of what i've done as accomplishments I see them more as like Like things i'm supposed to do or like things that like just happen and stuff like that I see so it sounds like What other people seem to think is like praiseworthy you think is like pretty run-of-the-mill Yeah, I think it's very like very standard or very I'm like just doing my job or Um, I got really lucky with like my group of friends and the people that I know Um, yeah, okay So so what do your friends say about you that they think is great that you think is pretty standard? Can you give us an example? Um Maybe like if they say that i'm good at doing my job like I work at offline tv Um and stuff and then they'll be like, oh like you're doing great like you do this and that but i'm like, oh I I mean i'm just doing like you know a job you like, you know, you go to work You know you go to work you have like a job description of like stuff that you're supposed to do i'm just doing like Or i'm trying my best to do like everything that's that i'm supposed to do and then also like There's always things that you could do more of And I don't even necessarily have all the time to try to do that or necessarily there's always something more you could do And like every in everything I guess yeah, that's true So it sounds like people say You know good things about you that you think are not really deserved or like you don't deserve praise for them It's like standard Yeah And what do you think would be like appropriate? For you, like, you know, what would qualify as something that's like Okay to be proud of like what would you have to do to feel confident or proud of what you've done? Uh Maybe if I was like really really good at a game then if people ever complimented me in that I would feel like a little more confident or validated or if I would have like I don't know a skill a like a specific skill set or talent or something or Yeah, I don't know don't really know what i'm good at I guess Yeah I know it sounds kind of weird, but what what makes you think that? Having your job at otv and doing what you do is not a specific skill or talent Uh I guess I think of it like if someone else were to be in my position like could they do the same thing and possibly Yeah, like I yeah possibly better and I just think like yeah, you know, there's so many people out there there's what I do I feel like is not very Like special I guess or um But my housemates tell me that like no like not I guess it's they're more concerned about I think like getting along with everyone and I can get along with everyone and stuff, but that's like uh I mean, I feel like if you just hired like a really nice Really nice person too who also like could work like that could also be the same thing great So how hard do you think it is to get along with everyone? Um I mean it's uh It doesn't seem like the hardest thing in the world possibly but maybe it's like I guess you just have to match it's it's hard to say I think it's vibe or personality, I don't know. Yeah, so like Here's so here's the tricky thing We'll get to like past and stuff like that But one observation that I've made is that people tend to take for granted what they're natural at So like when you're a natural it feels natural to you. It doesn't feel special right But the whole point of like like, you know If I was like a chess prodigy, let's say and I was just a natural at chess and like people were like hey man You're really amazing at chess But I was like I'm like it's not that big of a it just feels easy. Like I don't think it's that big of a deal Yeah, and does that make sense? So I've just noticed that people tend to undervalue what feels natural at and actually bizarrely Therefore the things that they tend to be the best at are the things that they devalue the most Because there's a perception That what people should value is correlated with difficulty Right like the more we value things the harder that like the harder something is the more we value it And therefore we kind of create this weird situation where like the more natural I am at something The more likely I am to like undervalue because it feels easy to me Does that make sense? Yeah So because I I would say that you know getting along with someone is exceedingly getting along with everyone Is actually like exceedingly difficult to do And then if you look at most problems In like content creator groups or even friend circles That like a lot of people a lot of the reason a lot of the drama like if you are a drama reducing influence Like you are worth your weight in gold What do you think about that? Yeah, I agree with that are you a drama reducing influence I hope so, but I don't know. I feel like that's difficult for me to say more for like easier for other people to say I think they that I think they do say that Right Well, they never said that specifically. Yeah, but I I think Yeah, but when they say you're good at getting along with people I think that they don't know how to I think part of the issue is that they may not be able to articulate What the value they see in you is? Mm-hmm, but if I had to bet money just you know having seen a little bit of like what different groups of like because like Why do content creators break apart? because of drama Yeah, and like what is the otv like turnover in terms of people coming on and people leaving? Like pretty low, right? Yeah And and so I mean, I I don't know. I mean, maybe i'm wrong here maybe But I can definitely see I think I think you're It's easy to undervalue like What you're good at first of all, it's just an interesting dynamic of the mind And if you're if you're kind of like smooth things over and you get along with everyone like that's not easy to do And that's actually very valuable to me Um, how do you how do you feel about what i'm saying? Uh, it makes a lot of sense. It's like when you say it's like, okay like that does make sense and that makes it Easier for me to like digest that like what I do bring some sort of value when it's like explained in that way so it's it's like you're uh, you know If we think about drama is like I'm trying to think about what the right video game analogy is You're like a cleanse for otv, right? There's like like poison ticks As people create content together like you stack up the poison stacks Yeah, and and like you need some like you need a healer Right. And the interesting thing is like the thing about like someone who's specifically it's not even like a healer It's like a cleanser Is when the cleanser does their job, right? Like sort of no one really notices But when they do their job wrong, like everything just starts like everyone's like sitting around at half health in the raid and everything is falling apart You know, you don't even see like because even if you look at the end when you look at the you know, the heal meters Yeah, the cleanser doesn't have like looks they haven't healed for anything And like some other heal meters are like, oh, you know, I healed for like 20k Like the cleanser sitting there like i'm just spamming cleanse and you don't see it on the heal meter So it's sometimes hard to recognize but Anyway, I suspect that your confidence has more to do You know, there's more to it than that. What do you think? Yeah, probably Yeah um Let me just think for a second. Yeah. So how long have you felt like? uh I mean, do you feel like you don't have confidence or that's just what other people tell you um I do I do feel like that a lot. Um, I didn't realize it until It was more prominent and in my head more when one day I had a call um and I was like talking to I was talking to toast and then he was just I I can't remember I was like kind of he was someone was saying something good about me or he was saying something good I can't remember and I was like, oh no, it's like It's not like I was playing it down a lot. I guess and then he was just like hey like That's my friend you're talking about right now like you be like Like and it made me think like why am I so mean to myself in a way and Yeah, that was just where it mostly like stemmed from And what when you say you're mean to yourself like what kind of thoughts do you does your mind produce about you? um I guess just not really thinking too highly of myself like anything that I Maybe possibly accomplish or do well I attribute it to a bunch of other things and Um I guess I just don't Really see what I did is like that Amazing or hard or so many layers of it. Um so what what is can you give me an example of like something that Maybe people thought was praiseworthy or an accomplishment and like literally what your mind said Um I guess like one of the things was like I Got masters in league and I had like a bunch of my friends who are like Really? Happy for me and I had a bunch of my friends who are also like pro players who are like Oh my god, like you work so hard and like you're actually I like I had to ask them like do you think i'm actually like a masters player and they're like yeah like You're like your caitlyn is actually like really really good and that but like I still couldn't Like I couldn't get that validation so like I couldn't feel it myself and um or people's Say like My friends will come up to me. They're oh my god evon like you're so pretty But like I never feel like I actually am like I don't like how I look a lot Of the time so I don't feel like i'm actually When people compliment my looks I almost like never believe them What does your mind tell you about why they're saying that? um I think I don't know. There's always like different reasons for it. They're either like my friends So they're they like love me no matter what? um or their bias or Other people who are just really supportive Like viewers and stuff just very supportive or just like yeah, so Yeah, so just uh, i'm gonna see if I understand so like if I were to tell you evon I think you're quite pretty you would say your mind would say oh, that's dr. K. He's gonna say that It has nothing to do with you. It has everything to do with me, right? Um, they're just they're just saying that um, I mean it's not like I think that everyone is just Saying that like they would lie to me or just say something like, you know just to make me feel better, but I just never like believe it Okay, I don't know if it's like it's like that doesn't necessarily have like a correlation but like in my brain I still won't really like Believe it Okay. Oh, I like believe that they mean it but I won't believe myself that i'm like pretty If that makes sense. Yeah. Okay, that that's thank you so much. I think that's a really important nuance Let me see if I got it so It's almost like you're you don't discount what they're saying like you think that they actually do believe you're pretty They're not just saying yeah, they could right? They're not just saying that because they're your friend You can understand that people outside of you may consider you to be pretty or good at league or whatever But you just don't believe that about yourself like they're entitled to their beliefs, but they're just you know It doesn't affect the way that you feel about yourself. Mm-hmm. What do you think about your league play? Um I think in the beginning I was a lot more unsure but as time goes on You see a lot of players In like the same rank I think like you know What maybe I am best or was masters at that time when I got it because I see the other players I'm like, oh man What is this? And then that's what I believed it was but it was through seeing other people, you know, not really through myself um, sure, but Yeah, so i've also I think like at some point just trusted my friends as well because I feel like I kept asking them like no bias like serious judge Like can you tell me like if you think like and then they a lot of them will always say yes So that like made me feel better But it took time. I didn't it wasn't something that I believed or I actually think like I just recently like what they said, I just absorbed it and was just like, okay like Believed a bit more that sounds so interesting. Yvonne. Can you help me understand how one goes about absorbing what other people say? It might go along with like Observing more like seeing like other players who are the same and like just over time. Um Thinking about I guess more like how much I know about the game when i'm talking about it with people or um playing it and like just the I guess sometimes when you lean against other people you just know see like the skill difference and so I felt like I was freaking A lot more a lot worse than I was because i'm comparing myself to my friends who are who are pro players You know like that's my my league circle is like a lot of them are pro players So it's like i'm i'm never gonna be that or like try to go for that So why am I comparing myself to them? You know So I always felt like I was so bad because I can't Do this Like kind of similar things that they do not realistic Yeah, so that sounds kind of weird i'm i'm gonna repeat the question that I asked and i'm gonna repeat your question You're gonna i'm gonna share a couple of tidbits from your answer back at you And then i'm gonna ask you one more question. Okay, so I asked what allows other people's words to sink in And the interesting thing is that you said it's observing more And it sounds like and then you started to say things that happened in your own mind and really don't have anything to do With what other people are saying? Like your answer was like when I play a game and I really pay attention and I realize that This scrub is a master's level player. Oh, maybe I really am master's level Right Yeah, like if you could be this bad and wind up in masters. I certainly deserve to be here Yeah, that takes that you know, I would My own if it didn't have like other people Well, but the interesting thing is that it sounds like for other people's words to sink in it actually has nothing to do with what they say Mm-hmm. It has everything to do with what you observe Possibly yeah, and then like what they say starts to make more I start to agree with or it makes more sense exactly, right? But so that's you agreeing with it, but that conclusion you formed by yourself So the first thing is like there's a really important principle here because people will say things to you and whether you deflect or dodge Or whether you accept them doesn't actually have to do with what they say. It has to do with like what you internally believe Mm-hmm So that's kind of interesting So is it okay if I ask you about your appearance some like Like we're talking about league like it I I just want to be a little bit careful here because you know I know that especially in our society today especially streamers female streamers get judged a lot on their appearance that there's a lot of like value and self-worth that society will attribute will be placed on you or that you will place on yourself depending about your appearance And I I just want to kind of make sure that it's okay that I ask you questions about that because talking about you know How you don't suck at league feels safer to me Then no, um, I actually am okay with that. I think it'd also be helpful to other Like girls are people out there who just struggle with anything similar as well. So yeah, I don't mind Yeah, so what do you think about? Are you pretty? Uh I can feel pretty at times like when I put on makeup or do whatever but then like I look and i'm like, oh Not as I see all that's how I want to look and that's just how I feel like I just think like oh like Sometimes like my face is too like round or oh, I just don't like A lot of it. I don't know what it is. I just yeah How do you feel about not liking a lot of the way that you look Um, I feel like it's a big Struggle in terms of being in this space because I think if I wasn't in this space I would feel better like I because there's not as much emphasis I think on on how you look but being in like photos videos everything like you naturally want to look good if you can especially just for me like as As a female I want to like look good. All my friends are freaking beautiful and It's just like I don't know. It just Sucks not really feeling like you're pretty as well Sounds like it sucks Yeah I mean it also sounds like you may even think you're pretty but Compared to your pro level league players who are freaking beautiful You know, i'm almost noticing a correlation there that like Your standard of comparison on the one hand you compare yourself to pro level league players and on the other hand you compare yourself to People who are as you put it freaking beautiful I'm sort of noticing a correlation there. What do you think? Yeah I think so And so Help me understand when you look in the mirror. What does your mind tell you or when you see photos of yourself? It could be anything I guess like To be like completely candid like i'll just look at a photo sometimes be like oh like I wish I was taller Or like, you know, sometimes you just look short or then um Or like my face will look like really Oh, it'll look fine sometimes but some days it'll look like more Round and I would just be like, oh I wish I was more consistent like I wish I could just like Take pictures and not worry about how I look after but that's also a thing that I could also work on if I just like For example, they worked out more or like did something to improve like Uh or lost weight and stuff like that like that could also Help so it's something that I could complain about but I can also actively do something about at the same time. So Yeah, i'm noticing some self-judgment there you're saying in a weird way, right because you're saying like oh I don't I shouldn't complain because I could fix this if I tried harder Yeah, I mean I think I don't like complaining if it's something that I can do about it Although I still do at times but it's like, uh, you can technically do something about this So so you don't deserve to complain if it's within your control Just complain less, you know Yeah About it. So let me so we're talking about confidence, right? Mm-hmm. So let me ask you something if you were prettier, do you think you'd be more confident? I'm not sure to be honest because I feel like Even if I was prettier, there's probably like something else I'd be like, you know I think you're right. I'm picky about yeah Right. So I I would say that you know, I know it's it's kind of harsh But I think that our society sort of can objectively rate people's attractiveness or people can agree, you know out of a statistical sample And my experience has been that You know Oddly enough confidence doesn't seem to correlate with attractiveness In fact, if you look at you know instagram reality Arguably the people who are even like objectively in the top 1% of physical attractiveness feel very very Like a big lack of confidence and will need to Photoshop the shit out of their pictures Because they're not confident in the way that they look Does that what do you think about that? Yeah, I totally agree with that. I Really don't think that even if I was like even if all my problems were solved like if I Thought I was like super pretty or if I like was really good at games that like there wouldn't be other aspects In life that would make that could make me still feel not confident so Oh, yeah, I would even disagree with that. Just a tiny bit Which is that you're assuming that if you were objectively better at league or objectively prettier That your mind would feel not confident about other stuff. Is that what you're saying? Possibly yeah And what i'm telling you having worked with a fair number of league pros Is that even if you're objectively better you can still lack confidence? Mm-hmm And even if you're objectively prettier you can still lack confidence. Yeah, so then that begs the question ivan If you were prettier and you still sort of like if there are people who are prettier than you are that are still Lacking a ton of confidence in their appearance even though on paper theoretically they shouldn't then where does that confidence come from? Um I don't know Other things that they are good at because the thing is for me I feel like i'm not good at anything or like, you know, i'm like, okay like you know Yeah, so we can play this game as long as we want to And I can tell you that you are better at me than league that you are prettier than I am And you do a better job at otv than 99 percent of people than I know And it's not gonna matter right because earlier we already discovered that until you were ready you're gonna swat away what people say And oddly enough, I know it sounds kind of weird but like If you really observe people what you find is that they can be anywhere they want to in terms of objective attractiveness But they their confidence can still is almost like independent of that Does that make sense? Yeah So Let's try to understand that like what do you think let's dig in. Yeah. Okay. So how long have you felt? Uh, can you I I think you had told me a little bit about like where you grew up and how you grew up But can you tell me a little bit about that again? Can you refresh my memory? Yeah, so, uh, I grew up back in canada in calgary With my parents and I was an only child They were kind of strict on me growing up because I was the only child and I was a girl so my mom very much was very strict and tried to like Make like check up on who was hanging out with the whole time and stuff like that. But basically how I was raised was Um, they always tried to me to obviously like to do well in school. Um Always tried like in chinese school they would always like try to Uh make it so that I get positive reinforcement for getting like first second or third place. It's like a top three in the class um, so every time I got like a top something I would get like a sort of reward of some sort and then Uh I also They also signed me up for like a bunch of tutoring classes for like math and other things I always had to do something that was like a couple grades above or ahead of what I was actually so like Grade three i'd be doing like grade five math books or something um But it I feel like in a lot of asian or chinese cultures, it's very much like Uh work hard like you do what you're supposed to do keep your head down and like you just Like try to succeed in life somehow ideally be a doctor or a lawyer so um Yeah, there's a lot of that and also they always Like kind of talk down on you in front of their friends, but they praise like the other kids there is like Oh, yeah, someone says doing like so well in school, but uh, like you know, you look at you You never clean the house. Look at this person. They're cleaning up after themselves It's like that kind of thing buffer like everything um so I think a lot of it probably did stem from that in terms of if you even if you Do do well, even if you do get like first second third place, whatever it is like you can always Either do better or like don't Get too ahead of yourself type of thing Help me understand don't get too ahead of yourself Like don't get too overconfident and then just like think you're Like i'm i'm great. I'm like doing grade five math, right and I get to grade five I'm kind of like i'm chilling and I don't think not like, you know progressing or doing anything after that It's kind of like don't get too comfortable Like you can still work hard and like try to get ahead Yeah, I hated it though tell me about what you hated about it Oh, I just hated doing extra work Math and stuff like I was a kid. I just wanted to like, you know play games or like Go outside or something but instead I had to do all these math pages like And then but at the time it just felt like something I had to do and I just did it It didn't it didn't really feel like i'm an option. Anyway Or I want to watch tv can't watch tv So ivan this may sound weird but like Can you hold on let me think about how to ask this So what was it like so i'm actually detecting that you didn't have a choice Right, yeah, I mean I was yeah and had to listen to my parents Yeah, and so sort of like your feelings didn't matter right And so I know it sounds kind of weird, but like how much did you hate doing that? Uh I didn't like hate hate it because I don't recall in my memory despising it that much I think I did enjoy like I mean I had nothing else to do if they didn't let me go watch tv or do other things. It's like well Like I guess I have time to do this You know, yeah, I I don't know Can I toss out what i'm sort of feeling and then you let me know but this is like definitely leading? Okay, so this could be wrong. So i'm hearing that you actually hated it a lot But that you felt like you didn't have a choice. So there's no point in hating it So you kind of turned down the volume on the hate that you felt Yeah, I think so I am very good at like minimizing things or Yeah Like your accomplishments I think I probably Now that you're saying I do minimize in everything in life Yeah, which is yeah, which I think is what do you think what other aspects do you minimize in? Literally everything I I mean Then things that happen to me things that um how i'm feeling, uh Or And when you minimize your feelings, what do you tell yourself to justify that minimization? I'm not really sure I think it's different for everything Okay, um certain things it's like want to maintain Relationships so we'll minimize that another thing might be like This is just what I have to do or like work, you know, it's like current pain for future gain So it's like yeah, I gotta just work hard do this Um try to get ahead Uh, well, I don't know if I think of try to get ahead anymore I know that's what my parents wanted me to do but I actually like that Thought itself never crosses my mind almost I never do work to get ahead. I do work because I just want to like You have a better future, but maybe that's the same thing Yeah, I was gonna say current current pain for future gain sounds to me like trying to get ahead Oh I guess I don't see it. It never like registered the same way because I don't think of like trying to get ahead of others I just think of just trying to have a comfortable life later Yeah, but it's like one is almost I guess they're the same thing but it's just one feels like you're trying to like get ahead of other people Yeah, but i'm not trying to get ahead of other people I just want to like make sure like i'm okay and like my the people I care about will be okay and then Yeah, i'm not hearing that there's like a race against others, but I am hearing a lot about delayed gratification sacrificing the present for the future And how you feel in the moment? And how you feel in the moment isn't actually that important because getting ahead Not of other people but in your like and I think it's interesting because that's probably part of the reason why you're you know a drama cleanser Does that make sense? Yeah Like help me understand. I'm seeing some connections there. I'm curious. Do you see any connections between? Minimizing your own feelings and like being a soothing presence for other people Uh, yeah, there could be a connection help me understand that um I mean, I ultimately just want everyone to get along and for things to just be okay because I think when that happens like we're just Uh I don't know how to describe but I just think we're ever everything's just better I mean, yeah, I mean that's just ideal right like we ideally we just want Everything and everyone to get along Yeah, and I would even I would venture so let me know if you think this is related But that sometimes like you're willing to set your own feelings aside or minimize your own feelings for the sake of harmony of the group Uh, yeah, that's that's happened but not in like a bad way. It's like always in a positive way everyone sacrifices somehow to Like for the happiness of the group Yeah, I I think I didn't I didn't want to imply that it was bad or that the group is like Predatory on you and they're like, oh my god, you know pooping all over you all the time But I I do think that when it comes to successful relationships, you know a certain amount of minimization of your own feelings is like generally speaking There's a healthy amount of that and as long as everyone's doing it to the same amount it doesn't become toxic Yeah And even sometimes it doesn't have to be to the same amount It's like, you know 70 30 is usually like what you can get away with and still maintain a healthy relationship. What do you think? Yeah Yeah, I mean it's just how like friends You know, it's just like how it works like everyone no one is perfect But it's like how you work together and how you like how much you love each other and everything that like makes it all like work out Yeah, so i'm gonna just switch gears on you for a second if that's okay and go back to something you said earlier What did it feel like getting first second or third? Uh It was nice. It made me feel like Though that I had to like keep maintaining that though. So That was pressure And what did it feel like to not get first second or third Um disappointing Can you help me understand more about what would happen if you didn't get first second or third Um I don't think anything would have happened, but it was just like I was just getting it like somewhere in the top three all the time And then it's like if I didn't get it then it's like what's going on type of thing, you know, and it's not like I guess maybe if I was never for second or third, maybe that pressure would have never been there but uh Okay So did you ever relax? Like mentally, um, could you ease up on the gas pedal? I Don't think I ever really relax except for When I first graduated University and I just like told my mom I was taking a month off to just take a break before looking for work And I degen play league for like a month And I think that was when I relaxed but prior to that I would say no unless I was ever like on vacation Or something. I never really like relaxed. It was always just school to work to like stressing about finding work after university because it was so difficult to after and then to also Moving to LA and then all this as well So what? Let me just think for a second And When did you start to have thoughts about your appearance and being unsatisfied with the way you looked um I mean, I never liked how I looked all my life almost or never thought I was one of like Sounds oh it sounds very dramatic when I say it like that But it's I just never like grew up thinking like wow, I look pretty or i'm good like it just it was never like a Oh, I like woke up very uh I asked my mom before I was like mom. Can you honestly tell me how you think? Like do you think that because I wasn't sure I was a kid basically and I asked her like, um Do you think i'm like pretty or am I average and then my mom was like I think you're average. I was like, oh, okay i'm average and then that was just like a no it is and then um I also had a bunch of friends back then and like Maybe I also had like a long-term boyfriend at the time as well and So I never got it's not like I got validation through other people telling me I was prettier like through other guys like Potentially like going after I was in a long-term relationship and like he always called me ugly girl as a joke I know it sounds weird, but it was like a it was like a Yeah, he just always said that and then um Uh I guess I don't know. I'm trying to think um I just never felt like I really got Or really was pretty I do think I got I looked better when I started in this space because I started caring more about my my appearance a bit more but it's not like I think I just like was prettier than before That's just it. That's like the one thing that I got in comparison to before So I gotta ask about the ugly girl thing All right, I don't even remember that that's a long ago. Yeah, do you have a sense of like What was going on there like Was that like a term of endearment where he sort of meant the opposite is sort of what i'm feeling Yeah, I think he like is trying to mean the opposite but he doesn't say it. So he said the other thing To make it easier to say all the time If that i'm sorry, I lost you there Like I think he just called me like ugly girl to like tease or try to like Be like obviously implied that i'm not but just like saying that calling. Yeah Because he wouldn't say that if you were really ugly Yeah, that's what I think was intended when he called me that in our relationship How did getting called ugly girl make you feel pretty? Nope, but it it was just like No, it didn't make me feel pretty but it didn't make me feel awful at the same time How did it make you feel? It felt like it was just like a nickname, okay, did it make you feel loved? Not necessarily But I didn't feel like it was really mean at the time either It sounds mean when I say it now, but yeah, it didn't feel mean at the time How old were you if you don't mind me asking when you were in this relationship? Uh from when I was like 16 to 22 Okay, so oddly enough. I think that makes a lot of sense because I think when you're 16 You don't really know how to communicate with a significant other, right? Yeah, it's you just haven't learned yet Yeah, so instead what you do is you you tend to say like insulting things in an endearing manner Because actually saying something endearing makes you feel like vulnerable and exposed and especially if you're a dude like you have trouble doing that You want to sound tough and you want to keep things playful and you want to keep things I don't know. It feels safe somehow to you know Um And are you do you mind if I ask about like dating recently Like it isn't you it's okay for me to ask or it's not okay for me to ask Yeah, you can ask. Okay. So are you in a relationship now? Uh now I am yeah And how do you feel in that relationship Uh happy do you feel confident in the way that you look Um not necessarily in the way that I look I think I just I don't know. I don't feel worse though. Okay Okay I'm gonna ask you a weird question. Yvonne. Is it okay? Can you be confident in not being very pretty? Yeah, I think i've been i've been trying my best to do that I'm kind of just like going my way through being like, you know what? I don't look the prism, but it's okay like just You know, you don't copy me. It's like that. That's how I feel Yeah, is that actually how you feel though, are you okay, okay not being the prettiest Yeah, i'm so i'm like there are obviously days where I wish I was free I don't expect myself to be the prettiest at all I think i'm just like trying my best to like get through with just being okay with myself and like i'm there Days where i'm completely okay, and obviously there's gonna be days where you feel lower, but Yeah What's the difference between those days? Um, well the difference I'm not sure Not very helpful, but uh I guess some days I just worry more about my appearance. Those are the days that I don't like as where i'm like I just Yeah, so when you worry about your appearance, what kind of thoughts do you have? Like i'm very thankful that there's masks now so I can cover like most of my face Okay, so I know this sounds kind of weird. I'm gonna ask you sort of a leading question, but I would guess i'm just gonna say it. I would guess that on the days that you don't Feel confident in your appearance. You're thinking about what other people think But yeah possibly and on the days where you Feel more confident in yourself. You're not thinking about what other people think Yeah Or I care less about what other people think i'm like, ah if it doesn't matter Some some days I have a really like Effort mentality and other days i'm like, uh, yeah, I mean I don't want to Don't like how I look Yeah Let me just Think for a second so I I feel evon I don't know. I mean are you Are you wanting to have some kind of like deep emotional catharsis today? Like do you want me to help you cry on stream? Is that what we're shooting for? Oh god, I I was looking at the difference between I actually looked at our last session a little bit before this I was thinking like oh wow. I look Freaking depressed or sad or something. I don't know. It was so It looked so different To how I feel now compared to before How do you feel now? I Feel so much better Yeah, so I was just at just i'm gonna ask again. Do you do you Want me to help you have a deep emotional catharsis? Sure, I'm up for anything. I didn't come in expecting anything in particular So here's here's the thing I i've got like a fork in the road here, okay, I'll let you pick So we can talk about you know if you want to we can talk about like, you know how your parents sort of taught you like That your value is not intrinsic, right? So what i'm sort of hearing from you is that you can never rest So I think like confidence comes from like the ability to like be where you are Right. So confidence is not about being prettier actually In fact, it's the opposite it's about being okay with however pretty you are whether you're on the ugly end of the spectrum Or the freaking beautiful end of the spectrum. Yeah um, and so it's interesting but then then the question of like, you know, why where did you How did you learn that it's not okay to be you because that's what I think confidence comes back to You know, and so so this is where it's kind of interesting because when you talk a little bit about your upbringing and stuff like It was never okay to chill, right? Like You had to work harder because what you were You weren't there yet. You always needed to be better Got to be better. Got to be smarter. Got to do higher level math You know, it's never enough like ivan like basically what i'm hearing is like you were never enough Yeah Yeah, and so we that we can talk about that right so we can share stories and stuff and you may have a good cry You know or what we can do is like since you are better I feel like it's sort of almost it feels a touch predatory to me to like go down that direction and like give everyone something fun to watch Mm-hmm And and on the flip side is like we could actually like learn something about confidence Mm-hmm and help you sort of like understand how it's built So it's sort of like we can be entertaining or we can be helpful and it sort of depends on what you're looking for Hmm um, it's like things yeah I don't really know. I also feel like at this Point i'm not even sure if it's like a nitty gritty thing that we could get at because I feel like the confidence thing like you said before it's just something I have to probably Or like something that I just like have to believe in I don't know if that's what you're not saying That's what you said sorry, but like or something that I just have to slowly come to a realization of in a sense for other things maybe Yeah, as you don't believe in it Yeah, as you don't believe in it That might that might be like a thing that that's a terrible that's a terrible idea That's what happens when people tell you something that you disagree with Is you rely on belief? Right confidence is not about belief. In fact, it's the exact opposite. It's like knowing that you're good Uh-huh, right like like you you can try so hard to believe what everyone tells you about how pretty you are But like if you're confident, you don't need to try to believe what other people say like you just know it yourself Does that make sense? So I don't want you to believe anything. I want you to naturally come to the conclusion That I know sounds kind of weird but that you may not be the prettiest person on the planet and there ain't no problem with that Yeah Right, so I feel like that's just like a work in progress. I don't know if that's like Is it I think so? What do you think Yeah, I think I think it's manageable like I it's not like a huge It doesn't feel like it's a big crippling part of my mental Although it does happen pretty frequently, but I can still like do everything Yeah, I think so do what I need to do and Yvonne are you enough? Um In in what way in all of the ways in all the ways I can ask it cup. Yeah. Okay, go ahead Maybe I'm not sure are you enough for your boyfriend? Yeah, I think so are you enough for otv Uh I think I could be more it's not what I asked Oh, oh um I Maybe Okay. Do you feel like you're enough for your boyfriend? um Yeah, but that's only because he's like Very this to me Like what does that mean? um Like he's extremely loyal and like sees me in like very positive ways that he would like only Me Like he makes me feel like I am like that's just it just like what I want what he wants Okay, so I know it sounds kind of weird yvonne That's a little bit concerning because what i'm hearing you say is is that if he was less loyal I wouldn't be enough Oh Because you're doing that thing where I ask you a question about you and you respond with someone else's attitude I see Do you see how you did that? Whether you're enough doesn't depend on your boyfriend's loyalty I feel like it's just different in relationships because You know, sometimes you're not enough for some people and sometimes you are first. It's just like so it's like That's that's well said So, yeah, yeah. So so let me just think about what I was saying earlier and whether maybe I was wrong How do you feel about yourself In that relationship, um myself in the relationship I think I Um, i'm not sure how to describe it I guess I would just say that i'm I think i'm like a pretty understanding or pretty decent girlfriend Are you a catch? Yes, do you really believe that Yes Good help me understand why What makes you a catch? Okay. Well uh that I think I Am decently like independent. I don't really I like have my own stuff going on. So i'm fairly busy and don't need to like Have someone like joined at the hip all the time. No, we all can like do our own thing, which I think is healthy um and I think i'm fairly reasonable when it comes to Anything general like just talk it out or like discuss or anything. Um Like that's it, that's it. I don't know So ivan i'm noticing a couple of different things, okay, the one thing one thing i'm noticing is that I I i'm asking you Challenging questions that I think you're giving good answers to that you genuinely believe And i'm noticing that you have to work to get there Does that make sense I could be wrong so like I'm like just if I pay attention to your body language and stuff It's like when I ask you the question i'm almost seeing like a flash of one answer in your mind Which then creates a war with like another part that has gotten stronger And then you're like deeply uncomfortable for like three seconds And then you come out with a yes, I actually like am awesome in this relationship and I am a catch which I do Genuinely think you believe But I is is it fair to say that you have to work to get there? Yeah, I mean it feels a little weird being like I'm a fucking cat, you know Yeah, so what I have to be like, oh think about it for a second at least think about it, you know like Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So here's the thing You'll be confident when it no longer feels weird Yeah, I think I think so I think it's just like a working Yeah, so so help help me understand. What is that initial feeling of like? Why is it hard at the very beginning to say yes, like what is that? I Because I absolutely agree that this is a work in progress and you seem to have come a long and very healthy way I do genuinely believe that like you see the value you bring to the relationship. You're absolutely a catch You know it. He knows it. We all know it And yet there's that little barrier you have to get over to be secure in that. Does that make sense? Help me understand what what's that barrier? I just don't want to For once you super conceited because I don't feel that way but also too is like um there's always room for improvement or there's always just Something you can do better possibly or in any aspect not necessarily relationship, but I just don't think that You should be like Oh, yeah, like i'm chilling i'm good from here on out type of thing because I that's just how I feel because I think Um like you don't really grow as a person maybe since if you just Feel like you're good So I i'm totally with you like I think that there's and i'm wondering whether there's like nuance here Like are you okay with where you are? Are Let me rephrase that can I rephrase that are you um, let me think about I there's something I wanted to modify in that question Not is it oh are you okay with where you are? Is it okay to come as far as you have Yes Are you okay with where you are Yes So when you feel like you're not confident what do you think the answers to those questions are can you help me understand that Um So when I don't feel as confident So when I don't feel as confident I think like Other people in my position would have done better I think That what I do is replaceable or that I just don't See myself as that great, okay So those it's yeah, I think I stumbled upon something. Let me ask you something. Are you Can your boyfriends find someone else? Who's as good as you are? I always thought he was like the type of person who could get along with like like so many people he's just that like I mean, I think he can meet someone else and also be like, oh you're pretty cool type of thing and like They could I don't know if they would be as compatible I think we're very compatible um But I think he could definitely find someone who's great as well Yeah, that makes a lot of sense I think you know all of us could find some you know There's not just a one person unless you know, depending on what you believe that love. Yeah, but Or do you feel replaceable in that relationship? I think it's different. I think because people are so different. It's very hard to feel like you could be replaced in a relationship Because that's a lot more intimate and there's so many more layers to it um So not very much Yeah. Yeah So then let me ask you this what how long How how long have you felt replaceable like how long is the feeling of being replaceable been something that you've kind of lived with Um It's not necessarily something that's so prevalent like I never think like all the time like wow, i'm i'm so replaceable, but I think like the work that I do maybe or I'm not sure it's that like I feel like tasks are very replaceable like yes someone to order something like someone else could do that Job type of thing here. Here's what i'm here's what i'm kind of detecting So first of all, I feel like you're well on your road to becoming confident. What do you think? Yeah, I think um, it gets better and it's it's not getting worse. Yep. I I see that So here's what i'm here's the way I would describe your lack of confidence so In your brain there is replaceable.exe And on some days Your brain is like turn on replaceable.exe and it runs like a script And over time what is happening in your life? Is that the number of times that you click replaceable.exe appears to be going down? What do you think Yeah, I think so And and so it's not that on a cosmic level you feel like oh my god I'm so replaceable like you're starting to see that you have value and like, you know in in real relationships But that there are times where like this It's almost like a script that like activates in your mind where your mind is telling you like oh you could have done better Someone else could have done it better and it seems like your boyfriend doesn't really like trigger replaceable.exe Trigger replaceable.exe Yeah, but there are some circumstances or people or situations that trigger replaceable.exe Right, so if we think about confidence what i'm sort of detecting In you and also from your story Is that like early on like like someone wrote the script for replaceable.exe? Does that make sense? Do you have a sense of when that script was written or how it got written? I think so. Can you help me understand that or explain that to me? Um I Think it stemmed from How It's it's something a little more complicated but I don't know if you follow like A bunch of the drama and stuff that's happened in the past but Um I think at some point I was going to leave otv and as I was going through like the job description and everything everything that I was listing in the job description felt very uh Like someone else could do this And I remember like that was a really sad time for me because Yeah, it just felt like Someone else could do it But it was like a position that I valued a lot So I thought we were going down the non-emotional catharsis round Sorry, it's this thing that you Or that i'm talking about. I maybe my time of the month is coming, you know, I a little emotional It's sure it started coming in the last 60 seconds It's kind of just random. Yeah, we came you're just you're over. He's like boom ovulation time. Here we go Yeah, maybe so I I want you to pay attention to that feeling ivan Like remember how you felt Right and like what I want you to really think about is like in your mind whether when I ask you are you enough for your boyfriend Whether that's the lump that kind of rises up and then you're actually like no you don't belong here. I'm You don't belong here But is that like the quality of the feeling that kind of comes to the surface? Does that make sense? Mm-hmm Is that what it is I can try asking you again Uh like Sorry, just to I guess re-ask the question is to make sure I got it right. It's like do I belong here? When I ask you are you enough for your boyfriend remember how we talked about You come to the answer that yeah, I i'm enough. I'm great. It's awesome We're chilling. It's all good But in order to get to that you had to do a little bit of work, right? You had to like move past something Is that fair? Yeah, so what i'm curious about is that thing that you moved past does it feel Look taste or smell Like what you felt when you were going over the otv job description Um I don't know if this answers it, but I feel like now there are fewer people who can do Like what's listed in the job description? um, but I think maybe it just takes more of like There's just different aspects to I guess like That I do believe that there is something some value that I bring that's more but that's just also based off my friends and my roommates like constant like constantly Reassuring me and validating on it too. So like as time goes on I like believe it more and more Yeah, I think that makes sense so i'm gonna ask you once again about the job description So like that feeling that you had when you were looking at it. Can you tell me a little bit more about What was happening what was in your head or what you were feeling? Um Well when I was looking over it it just felt sad because it's like oh Like you're leaving this stuff behind for like someone else to do and they're all stuff that you used to do and And I don't know. It's just like that just was a sad feeling. That's all I could really attribute to it. There's not a whole lot other than It was a really difficult time and I was it wasn't even about the job description. I think it was more Like leaving the people that I grown really attached to and that I value a lot because that's also part of the job um, but Yeah, it was I just remember thinking like I Wouldn't really have a general direction to walk towards anymore Like if I at twitchcon or at any event, I always have like a general direction. I always walk towards like otv And it's like a very I was thinking about that a lot. I remember Trying to An old housemate of mine about that about how like there's no one or like I wouldn't have a general direction to walk to anymore And then It's fine because he said that at the very end when he was moving out that He thinks back to what I said a lot because now it applies to him I Wow When you say general direction to walk towards can you help me understand that Uh, it's almost like You go to an event You see like a group of people you're comfortable with and you naturally would gravitate and like walk towards them To hang out talk it's It's just like feeling like you belong or that you're involved somewhere in the group Yeah, I think I know what you're talking about It's the exact opposite of going to a party and not knowing anyone Yeah, right. You're just sitting there like maybe you've got a drink in your hand and you're like I don't have anyone to talk to do people think i'm weird I don't know like should I approach these people sound like they're having fun. Would I be intruding? Mm-hmm. It's the relief of all of those feelings yeah, a lot of comfort and just feeling like safe or like Yeah comfortable I'm not really hearing anything about confidence there What do you think? I think I kind of I kind of went off a bit of I don't know but yeah Different I mean did you feel like they were ready to discard you I'm not trying to trash them or anything like that. I'm just curious I was just trying to think about how that could relate to someone's confidence and the best that I can come up with is like If you you know if they were like if they could just you know You could move on and it wouldn't make a big difference to them like they're fine like it's like whatever Um No, no, I think it was like I don't feel that way Right now. I think back then obviously I felt like I was leaving so sad but They actually made it very like Like they didn't seem like they really wanted me to go Yeah Yvonne do you have any questions for me? Um In terms of Anything anything like yeah I feel like we've covered a lot of different ground and and I was about to sort of share what I've learned from you But kind of before we go there I was just curious whether you wanted to talk more about something or Um, you know if there were any anything that I should have asked more about or you wanted to talk more about Not off the top of my head necessarily But can I go to the bathroom quickly? Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry. I have a really small bladder Okay It never it never uh-oh testing testing 123 oh, there we go. Okay. It never ceases to amaze me how um, how people Apologize for needing to use the restroom I think I lagged there for a second chat So Sorry, dr. K, I have a kidney yeah, man, how dare you Yeah Yeah, right I'm just reading chat. I guess I should be responding. I I really there's so much interesting stuff here bladder related stuff Um Yeah, it's weird right like in school how we we kind of we talk about You know like using the restroom is like punishable. It's like a punishment It's like I remember when I was in middle school like we would have a certain amount of time to like go to our locker and then presumably pee And we had these like gigantic textbooks so you really had to map out your day because like, you know peeing a couple times a day would be a real problem because every Class you have to go back to your locker put away like one textbook grab the next textbook. It was idiotic And that welcome back So ivan here's what I was kind of thinking is um You know, so it seems I understand that you've got sometimes you've got like confidence issues but it seems to me like um You're working on those and they're growing I was thinking actually since you're so sometimes when people have confidence issues There's like some kind of root thing which we can kind of talk a little bit about I think we could sort of touch on that a little bit but what I was actually feeling from today is is we can sort of almost put together a lot of what you've shared about your Journey so far and see if we can understand a few principles about where confidence comes from So that as you continue to walk this journey, you can maybe be a little bit more mindful or focused about building your confidence How does that sound? Yeah, sounds good. Okay, so it may not be I know we had a little bit of emotion there But it may not be like oh my god. The reason you're not confident is because like at the age of seven like you Someone like yeah, like there's a dog that was walking down the street and it was about to lick your hand But it went and it preferred another human and then I don't know if my brain can even like I don't know if I remember Like a freaking story like I can even pinpoint that. Yeah, that'd be like that So so we'll get to that right? So we'll so the first thing is I want you to just look at your mind and recognize that sometimes people say things to you And your mind like swats them away Right or it like makes excuses and it's like oh this person is saying this because he is loyal This person is saying this because they are my friends That what they're saying Doesn't have as much merit is like the fact that they are the ones that saying it And so it's almost like your mind kind of like discounts it, right? Um, the second thing is that we do have a tendency generally speaking to undervalue what we're natural at So like You know, you may think that this is something that anyone can do but like really it's not the case Like a lot of people may be able to theoretically do what's in the job description but to do it like as well as you do and as You know because people can do it and still be like complete pains in the ass Mm-hmm. Does that make sense? Like I it's hard to describe it like I Like I you know, I think it's very easy to undervalue like what people are natural at um, and then the third thing is I want to point out that you know when you were talking about like When you feel more confident There seems to be a correlation between When you think about other people and when you don't think about other people So when you compare yourself more the confidence goes down When you observe like when the focus when when the telescope is pointed towards you Confidence will actually increase and when the telescope is pointed towards other people it'll actually decrease So that can look like comparison or it can look like what will people think? Oh my god. It's so nice that I have to wear a mask because now people don't have to look at my face Right. It's kind of a brutal thought but it's like literally what your mind will say The point though is that like confidence, you know, it's kind of People say stuff. Oh that confidence comes from within like literally it does come with it from within Yeah, and and then people get confused because but people don't understand like the mechanism of how do I get the confidence within? And literally it is like the more time your mind spends thinking about other people or thinking about what other people think the less time you will be confident Now you also said that you exist in the space where there's a lot of inherent comparison Right, and that's tough. So what I see and this is like what we found So we have a you know a content creator program At healthy gamer and what we've found is that absolutely like the more that we can help content creators See themselves as like individuals as opposed to like comparisons like the more that we can help content creators Not think about what other people are doing or how this person. Oh my god. This person is completely blowing up And even though i'm growing at a steady clip I feel bad about myself because i'm not blowing up So there's like a lot of comparison that will negatively impact your confidence The next thing to kind of think a little bit about is that I do think there's something about You not being enough or replaceable Which was like definitely like it's just part of the asian upbringing You know And and it's funny like you kind of said, you know Like it's like be a doctor or a lawyer. Otherwise, you don't deserve to be confident. Like you were literally taught that You get to chill when you get into medical school and not a day before I mean literally my dad told me when I was nine years old and my brother was 12 He was like one of y'all is going to be a doctor and one of y'all is going to be a lawyer And then I used like that was not like he wasn't kidding Yeah, he was like those are the options And also that we both couldn't choose the same thing Because he's like together we will be the uber family Because one of y'all will be a doctor and one of y'all will be a lawyer. So we will have both boxes checked So if someone runs into legal trouble one of the two y'all can handle that and if someone runs into medical trouble One of the two y'all will handle that that is That's crazy. And so what happened? Yeah, he became a lawyer. I became a doctor. Oh my god That works That just works. You don't give him an option. It works. Uh, I think it I don't I actually don't really think the two are related But I will say like so when I was in med school people would ask me right because when you interview for med school They're like, why do you want to become a doctor and I would tell them this story And then I would say my brother was older so he chose he got to choose first and he went to law school So here I am and then we laughed about it And then I wouldn't have to answer the question why I was there because I didn't have a good reason Okay, that's good, that's a good one Yeah um, but but I I do think I I see this a lot where people like struggle with being confident and Because like this is the this is the lesson you were taught right? Like you were taught like There are like there's like the best there are the perfect kids They're the great kids and they're the good kids And whether you're confident Is determined by which group you fall into right? And so the interesting thing is that let's say for a second I'm not going to try to be mean or anything here But i'm going to say something that maybe some people will find mean let's say you're not the prettiest person on twitch Which I will agree with like if you were to say Dr. K. I don't think i'm the prettiest person on twitch. I would say ivan. I think you are correct Yeah And the issue though is that if you were to tell me like dr. K. I wasn't perfect in school I will also agree with you if you were not valedictorian. You were not perfect That's fine. You were you were not the best I will agree with you. I will not try to convince you otherwise The difference is I will say that's actually okay That you don't have to be the prettiest person on twitch. You don't have to be perfect And that actually if you want to give like the most value you have in the world And the most benefit you can give to the world is not by living up to an external standard But being confident in who you are And there's an interesting point here because it doesn't mean that you can't be better that you shouldn't be better I don't think you should chill This is the other thing that you know, the asian upbringing gives you is the idea that unless you're grinding you're chilling It's like there's two groups. There's the people who are two years ahead in math And they're the deadbeat potheads and there's nothing in the middle. And if you're not one you're the other does that make sense? Yeah Right. That's the way we were raised. It's like if you're not ahead you're behind Yeah, like it's weird. It's like there's no there's no like being just where you are and it's like okay to be where you are Yeah, it's just And so I think it's kind of interesting because like in your mind you're gonna have all these different like exes It's gonna be like, you know When you when you it's gonna be your boot order and like your your processes that boot up when you load up windows And there's gonna be a lot of that crap in there And so when it comes to confidence, I know it sounds kind of weird But like there's a part of me that says, you know the next time you feel like you're not very pretty Instead of trying to convince yourself that you should be prettier that these people are prettier than you or whatever I would encourage you to think a little bit about what's wrong with that Mm-hmm Right, like I would question the structure that your mind is telling you because I think when it comes to people like your boyfriend When it comes to the people who really care about you like you don't need to be prettier Like what do you think? What does your mind say when I say that? Yeah, I agree I just uh It would just be nice to be So I'm going to the gym and like all this stuff to try to like at least feel better about myself, which I do So going to the gym has actually recently been very nice because I at least feel like No matter what you go to the gym, you make progress. You never like regress. So So I think that's that's like super healthy and I would encourage that because it's not about living because the interesting thing there Is that it's not about living to a standard, right? It's just saying hey like I can that's where confidence comes from it's sort of like looking at your life and saying like This could be better. I'm gonna do something about that And so the interesting thing is that the confidence doesn't come from your progress at the gym The confidence actually comes from because like if you're thinking about progress at the gym I know it sounds kind of weird, but then you're thinking about other people Oh if I go to the gym three times a week, then people will think I'm sexy As long as that's the thought process in your mind, you actually won't gain confidence Yeah, that's not it Yeah, at least that's what is it for you? um, I feel better I feel healthier I feel like uh It's it's just like having the discipline that makes me feel good that I went is like The battle is really just get getting up and going and leaving your house. So when I already do that, I feel better And then also just like you feel yourself making progress or getting stronger because it's visible and then so like that feels really good So who are you thinking about? Where is the telescope pointed when you go to the gym? uh Not thinking about other people Absolutely. Yeah, and that's why it leads to confidence and I've worked like so the let me just think about this for a second One of the hardest if not the hardest patients I have ever worked with Are people who are bodybuilders with body dysmorphic disorder? Mm-hmm. So like these are people that like no matter how like it is the like It's hard to describe but it's like it is the the mental illness that is like the hardest to displace Like I can convince psychotic people that they're wrong. I can convince depressed people That they should live I can even convince from time to time manic people that they have not figured out, you know The grand unified theory of physics The one person that I have never succeeded in convincing is like the bodybuilder with body dysmorphic disorder No matter how hard i've tried. I cannot make a dent That despite being one of the most absurdly chiseled people on the planet that it is enough And it's so weird And it's so weird it's like the hardest thing to treat Like I feel pretty confident treating just about everything else but like body dysmorphia Specifically in body even women with body dysmorphia. I do a pretty good job It's like men with body dysmorphia that like it's like as long as they're thinking about the other person They can be in the best shape of their life Which is the other interesting thing about confidence is that as long as you're thinking about becoming prettier you're not going to be confident Mm-hmm Right. So this is a very common misconception about confidence is that people think that confidence comes from achievement or success What do you think? I mean it could help. I just don't think it's like the one like Solving factor, I guess yeah, which which I and I think it can help too But the interesting thing is when people chase confidence what they chase if they're looking to be more confident What they chase is achievement, right? They think oh if I achieve then I will be more confident Which is missing the point because that's actually what it actually does is places Your value in yourself to be conditional On your success And that actually is the opposite of confidence So like your parents basically, you know I'm not trying to bash your parents here. My parents were sort of the same way, right? It's asian parents and they were like or jewish parents or nigerian parents. It's it's not exclusively asian as well Yeah, but they were basically like, you know We will be proud of you not based on who you are as a person but based on your achievements And so that's where like asian people like i've worked with thousands of eight not thousands hundreds Of you know asian and indian kids Who like they were taught like they have troubles with confidence because they are taught that your value as a human being is dependent on your performance And so I think like that's where it started and then I think you have had a couple of these other Experiences where you felt like replaceable and then the third thing if I wanted to understand your confidence Was that I think you live in an environment that causes you your mind to compare more Yeah, and that the more you look towards yourself your confidence will grow And the last bit that I would say is just pay attention to the next time you feel you notice that your mind is like Swatting things away and then like the more that you look and observe that within yourself because when we asked you How did you gain confidence you were like, oh I started to observe myself I started to make my own observations instead of thinking about like I started like watching players and be like these people suck Yeah Right. And so the more you make your own observations The better off you're going to be because if you really think about it when you swat away someone's compliment You're not making an observation It's a conclusion that you're putting forth. Does that make sense? Do you understand what i'm saying there? It's like a reflexive pushing something away without actually like objectively looking at it Yeah Like a reflex exactly. So it's not like it's a reflex. It's not an observation And so the more that you observe the more you go to the gym the more that you look at yourself like the more your confidence Will grow and I think you're well on your way What do you think Yeah, I think so. I think like just doing small things along the way definitely helps and it's not like i'm instantly gonna Be there but i'm getting there I think and just Like i'm i'm not trying to be like super mega confident like I can accomplish anything but I just want to be more than where I am right now And I think that's like achievable Are you okay with where you are right now? um I'm fairly okay with it. Um, I would like to be like improve overall in general, but like other than that like I Can't complain too much So ivan you sound confident to me And I do yeah Well Maybe right now Do you do you feel confident? uh I mean not necessarily but uh, do you feel a lack of confidence? It comes in waves like yeah, so I I feel very like normal right now there's not like a fluctuation not like an upward down Very yeah, so I know it sounds weird, but it's that normality which I think is actually the essence of confidence Oh You know it sounds kind of weird but it's like As you go into different places like when you meet your boyfriend and you feel normal Like that's what a healthy relationship looks like right? Like that's how you feel Like it's not feeling If your mind is like, oh I should be prettier or i'm hot shit He is so lucky to have me like both of those like one of those is ego One of those is a lack of confidence Yeah Which he may be I mean it sounds seems like he's a lucky dude tbh Yeah, yeah i'll show him this clip what do you think Oh, I mean, I think i'm lucky too Or I mean i'm like just as lucky so as soon as I said that you crossed your arms How are you feeling did it pop up again? Uh, did it um I don't know because it could just be embarrassed because I complimented you or it could be like which one was it Um, was it an aw shucks? Oh stop it I mean, I think like I think also like it's not just me, you know, I think he's i'm also or I think i'm also very lucky because he's also like why the fuck are we thinking about you though? I don't know Why can't you just dude? He's a lucky dude like what? Why can't why can't you just bestow upon him the awesomeness that is evon? I because maybe I just see it like both it goes both ways, you know relationships is just like Like you compliment each other. I may not be lucky like I may not be a good Girlfriend to someone else right Yeah, i'm I i'm really confused now because there's a part of me that's like You know if he's a lucky dude like you think he's a lucky dude Uh, i'm Um, is he is he like I know that's it sounds like a really simple question but i'm just like I mean I don't know. What would you have to be for him to be a lucky dude? What would have to be different I'm not sure i'm not even I mean maybe if I was like Better in like every aspect a little bit more it'd be like, oh, yeah, they're really Like no, we're not like, uh, they're just Compromising each other there Yeah, so it's interesting right because I think it's like it's weird because it's like it's 50 there Yeah Because there's a part of me that's like, you know what? You're you sound confident. I think it's there But there's also some resistance like you can't you feel like you need to be better in every dimension for him to be lucky I just never think like damn you're so lucky to have me that's like never a type of thought That sounds healthy. That sounds healthy It's you know, I just very much like oh, I think we just like get along and complement each other well Okay, so I don't know if that's like a I don't look at like my Criteria or like my resume and be like That they're lucky to have me it's always just like a compatibility thing or like a Okay, so like yeah, it's a different thing for me. Yeah, I I hear you So I I think what was happening there is that I was trying to apply a particular like system to your relationship Which is just not the way that you see your relationship Yeah, so it's not necessarily Yeah Yeah, I don't know. I don't know that it was actually like a lack of confidence thing It was just more like a lack of arrogance thing and just sort of like uh, this is how relationship work Relationships work. I just don't think of him. It is like i'm you know, god's gift to this particular person It's just I don't think I'd be like that for anyone, you know, it's just like Do you guys get along like how well do you mesh? and I think that's like the a huge essence as to like whether a relationship works out or not not really like Is this guy or girl freaking? Attractive af and like all these other things got it. So that actually sounds to me like if you had said yeah So it sounds like you're moving away from an objective standard and just appreciating what you have yeah, I don't feel like a huge emphasis when it comes to like About the things that we discussed like in that in this relationship. Yeah, I I get that So I think that was me trying to apply a particular Set of language to that didn't seem to fit So It was just weird though because I I thought when I you know, I mentioned something that seemed like a compliment like it was Hard for you to take what do you think? Oh, yeah, it's been like that with a lot of things in general every time there's like a compliment, I think like It's just so hard for me to take compliments I can't just like Yeah, so what are we supposed to do when you receive a compliment? When you receive a compliment like pay attention to your mind Think about what you're thinking. We're gonna try again Okay. Oh gosh I want you to pay attention to what your mind says if you can think out loud All right, so you ready? Yeah, it's gonna be a tough one You're very pretty What is your mind doing Like It's like 50% okay, so tell me what it's saying just saying like oh like I just I just think in my head like oh, thanks and then like that's like My confidence doesn't waver but it doesn't like I don't feel Like There's not like a huge up or down All right, does it make you feel uncomfortable when I say that But that is mainly because I'm uncomfortable to compliment or I don't like accept them right away Yeah. Yeah. So so what's what pushes back? Tell me what pushes back? Um, I think I just don't I just don't hear it very Often that someone will say that outright to me. Yep. Yeah, so you're so should we try again? So let's let's we're gonna we're gonna teach you how to Okay, I mean like nobody like looks at me and says like I do Here we go I said this we're going ivan. You're really awesome at league. Oh Am I now yeah Not anymore Even if I was i haven't played in a while, so you used to be really awesome at league How's that one And I just think yeah, I just think like you haven't seen some of my games See there it is So where's that thought coming from? Well, it's coming from the bad games that i've had i've seen them all you know When it's you you've seen all the good and yeah, but but your mind is not going to the good games It's automatically going to the bad game. So we're going to try one more time. So what's what's your what's your job description at otv? Uh Uh Like do I name him? Yeah, like what like what's your what's your job? Like what's like what's your not description title? Uh like a manager, okay, so you're an awesome manager That I feel pretty confident in what does your mind do there? I think i'm decent, but I could do better I think I could do better than that I think I could do better than that I think I could do better than that Um, I just think it's the truth. I think if I had like I could There are all these things I could do to do better in that aspect. Like there's so much Um, I could learn or that I could put time into um Yeah, I could do better, but i'm still awesome. Why can't you be both? I could be both but I just Don't feel entirely There yet, maybe but I feel like i'm putting my heart into it just like My Capabilities or experience wise may not be there if that makes sense like I'm not like uh, there's other areas that i'm not as interested in or that i'm not as like Experienced in which is just you know natural and I think That's okay But I could be better in those areas Okay, well you so you said something that was really interesting to me you put your heart into it Mm-hmm, that seems really amazing to me What do you think Uh, well, I think that mainly just goes into like caring about the people in it so I like I think what makes you an awesome manager is that you care so much about the people that you work with How's that Yeah I can agree with that And what are you feeling now? emotional What's the emotion? Well, um Seriously, I think what's it's awesome. Like I think that's why everyone around you appreciates you so much Because there may be people who have more skills. There may be people who have more experience But you care so damn much And you give it everything you've got and they can count on you to do that And that's what really sets you apart That's why you're irreplaceable I cry every time one I'm here every time well, how do you feel about that? Uh It feels better I feel better hearing that. Yeah It's weird like but I I think that that's something that I can feel you own Mm-hmm Which is good. I I think you're on your road to like it because that's that's a hefty one, right? I was like Really like I mean that was some high praise right there. That's some good shit I mean, I can only believe because I feel the emotions very intensely other than that. It's like yeah So so I and I think that's that's where it's like it's it's what you feel in here Like that's when we say like confidence comes from within that's what it is because that was that was clearly I think a better compliment than anything else i've said Yeah, that's like the best. Yeah, that's like the best thing. Yeah And and so I I don't know where we are now, but I feel like we've learned something I just don't know what What I think we're getting there and honestly, I appreciate that so much more than someone telling me that i'm pretty I like That like so much more Yeah, that's the correlation or anything but I had a like I Yeah, i'm gonna meme with you here But if I went into as much detail about why I think you're pretty that'd be a t.os violation and we all Go home. So Okay, we got we got to stay with safe professional stuff. Yes, you know Yeah Any questions ivan? No, I Yeah, nothing that comes to mind. Um, what about you? I I mean, I I think not really. I mean I shared what I I've loved talking to you I think it's been awesome. I think it's been really interesting because What we see is people who are at the beginning of their confidence journey And we see people who are confident I think it's been an absolute pleasure to talk to someone who's like halfway there Um I was really really happy to see that you can actually like receive like authentic praise. That's well deserved I think it demonstrates to me that You know you have your mind will latch on to whatever justification in a sense that it has that maybe someone can do stuff better But that you can genuinely see like what you are worth To otv you can genuinely see what you're worth to your boyfriend. You can genuinely see You know what you're worth to like the twitch community and and other people and that you don't have to be the smartest person You don't have to have the most followers. You don't have to be the prettiest You can just be you And that's like awesome Um And so I think it's cool to really like talk to you and see exactly where those barriers of like what you can take and what you Can't right like what feels natural and like okay and what doesn't And that's the tricky thing is we think about confidence. I have confidence if it's binary But it's not binary, right? It's like a slow process and I think you really did an awesome job of illustrating especially when you talk about going to the gym It's not about being prettier because like when you hear yourself talking about it's not you know It's like i'm doing something that I can be proud of and that's where confidence comes from. It's all internal It's very much like for me progression Helps me build like confidence if I could like see it or feel it Yeah, and I think the really tricky thing is when people lack confidence They swat away the progression Right because there's there's this voice in your head that for some people when you go to the gym it says it's not enough You could be doing more you could be doing more you could be doing more And so it's interesting because we can hear actually in specific cases Where your mind defaults to you could be doing more and where it's like, you know what i'm actually pretty great Could I do more? Absolutely, but I feel okay with what i've done. I'm genuinely like bringing value So that's what I really enjoyed about this. It's kind of nuanced But yeah Last thoughts or questions before we wrap up? Nothing, but i'm just really glad that Like I don't know the session the two I feel like the two sessions that we had were so different obviously, but like I feel Really happy that we had this session like just like very Like one year later and like I feel Yeah, it's been I think it's been a little over a year Yeah Yeah But uh, you just helped me so much the first time I really appreciate it you like hit the nail on the head a lot of how I felt and Put a lot of like I guess feelings that I had in my head into words that like perfectly described it. So Yeah, just wanted to thank you for that Yeah, ivan I'm debating i'm just going to go ahead and say this so the first thing is that I'm incredibly proud of the progress you've made in the last year. I think it's truly amazing I think what you have managed to do with yourself and the person that we're talking to Is a testament to like the resilience of the human spirit And You know The other thing is that sometimes particular events like this are really Sometimes particular events will happen to people that will shatter their confidence You know and it doesn't necessarily have to happen in your upbringing but like there are particular things that can happen to people that can really shake The way that they feel about themselves and be confident about themselves and it's been really nice to see like how Confident and comfortable you are It's cool. Like it gives me hope for humanity So thank you for being you You Yeah, well you too. Thanks for helping a lot of people as well. You're most welcome Um I guess that's it Uh, well best of luck to you ivan, you know, let us know if you need help on your journey down the road Um, you know if you're if you're all the way there at some point and want to share with us That's totally fine or if something else comes up But I think I think you're crushing it So keep crushing it Thank you You're welcome. Take care Thank you you too Okay Oh shit, I forgot meditation. Yeah, I completely flubbed. I forgot that I I was I need to ask you if you want to meditate today Okay, i've never done it before but i'm happy to try Okay Um, let's start with this. What do you what would be the goal of you meditating? What do you want meditation to do for you? Maybe to de-stress but I feel stressed a lot Okay, um, and when you get stressed what what happens to you? I just Hey I lay down or something. I don't know Okay, so you feel like mentally overwhelmed and you become like inert like you don't move around Um, it depends sometimes I feel stressed and I work so then I feel less stressed because i'm productive and i've done stuff um And then sometimes I just like feel stressed or tired. So I lay in bed and just like take a break for a bit Okay Um, i'm gonna teach you a meditation practice called bellows breath Okay, okay So it's a particular kind of breathing practice that is going to be forceful inhalation Followed by forceful exhalation and we're going to breathe like relatively rapidly and then kind of calm down a little bit afterward For people who have watched this before I actually got the names confused. So this is different from actually what I used to teach is called breath of fire, but So bellows breath, I want you to sit up straight i'm gonna blow my nose. I think you should too Oh, I got teary towards the end Oh, yeah and got caught up With how awesome you are? I'm just gonna toss those out Okay, okay, so I want you to sit up straight Oh good super straight, okay, so are your knees lower than your hips? No, i'm sitting cross-legged so no, oh Okay, so that can be good Do you have a a small like pillow or blanket that you can sit on if you're sitting cross-legged? But just I have this Yeah, so can fold it up Oh, it's a robe Yeah, I thought it was a blanket. Well, it's a blanket robe. Okay Can you sit on top of that? Yes But not under your knees you want to put it under your hips Okay, and then sitting cross-legged is good So now you may notice if you sit cross-legged are you sitting up straighter now that you're sitting on the robe? Okay So this this technique is actually super simple So what it's going to hopefully help you do is kind of calm you down and energize you at the same time So what we're gonna do Is i'm gonna breathe in Got it Okay, so this is um Yeah, so what we're gonna do is like 15 breaths So i'm going to close my eyes and i'm going to demonstrate one round so And you kind of want to do like one second in one second out so one two one two Okay, but you're gonna count for like 15 breaths. So i'll i'll demonstrate Okay And then you're gonna be like super chill afterward, okay All right, you ready Yes, I don't know if i'm gonna do it right though. Yeah, of course. You're not gonna do it right. It's your first time Okay, who does something right the first time? uh really talented People basically no one All right. Okay. Okay, so close your eyes sit up straight and then begin Okay Okay Were you breathing out pretty hard like in and out hard or could you could you give it more oomph? It felt hard but I don't know how hard i'm supposed to go because I feel like if I went harder it wouldn't be very It wouldn't feel very nice Go harder go harder. Okay. Okay, we're gonna do 15 rounds Okay So I have I was I wasn't sure how many times do I doing it 15? Yeah Okay Or if you want me to I can keep track and i'll tell you I'll you want me to count with you would that help? Sure, okay, so close your eyes Go hard this time. Okay Okay, three two one Go one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifty Now just sit Okay How do you feel it's really comfy He's really relaxing Were you exhaling hard too? It seemed like you were putting everything into the inhale I I think oh Well, yes, but I feel tired Yeah, so it's like I think I think it worked right is this supposed to make you tired after Well, I think if you inhale really hard and you don't exhale as hard it may have a slightly different effect Okay. Well, I felt like I was chilling Yeah, you were chilling. That's good. So you can have a chilling So if you want to be if you want to balance the energizing a little bit better I would push out practice a little bit more on on pushing out the exhalation Okay, because let me let me think about what this is doing Like Yeah, you may be becoming slightly hypercarbic which is the opposite of hyperventilation If you're not exhaling forcefully enough if you're just like sucking in a bunch of air Like if you're sucking in more air than you're exhaling you may actually start to feel a little bit trippy Is that when you say relaxed are we talking to like a little bit woozy trippy? Or more just just relaxed I think just relax. Okay. Yeah Okay, you want to try one more time with hard exhalations? Are you done? You can be done I might just feel too tired for it. I don't know. I feel like tired now Okay, so just let's stop then So I I swear i'll do it afterwards. Yeah, try again because the I mean, I guess it's this is the how to tire yourself out meditation I suppose we may we may have stumbled upon a new technique which I'll have to think about But it might also be me waking up like a little bit earlier than you know, I mean I had some coffee and then It's like no, it's it's possible. Yvonne that you have you have unknowingly stumbled upon a wonderful technique for insomnia Because you have your coffee and you feel tired Some coffee crash Like caffeine, I don't know So i'll experiment with this. I encourage if people are watching and practicing with you I I wonder if you do like sharp inhalations with minimal exhalation whether you feel tired It's useful i'll i'll meditate because sometimes people want to calm down and they want to like mentally chill out right like they want to like calm the f down Yeah, that's really helpful too. So we may have stumbled upon something. I don't think i've ever seen this It's interesting because we have the opposite where we have forceful exhalation with very mild inhalation and that is breath of fire and then this one is bellows breath, but I I don't think that there's a There's an opposite version of this. It's interesting. So i'm going to experiment. Thank you. Yvonne. You may have stumbled upon something Good job Yeah, no problem anytime All right. Take care of one. Yeah, thank you. Bye. Bye All right chat that was unexpected but hey yvonne may be super Yeah breath of breath of fire is uh, the it's the yvonne method