 So the first thing that we've got to figure out is like, why do people lie? And if we want to understand when people are lying, we have to start by figuring out why do people lie? So what is lying about? So sometimes, you know, people say lying is about protection because you're, you know, you're trying to protect yourself from a particular consequence. And that's fair, I think. But in my opinion, lying is really about one thing, and that's about control. So what anytime someone tells a lie, they're actually trying to control the behavior of another human being. Right? So let's just think about this. If I, if someone asks me, oh, did you steal candy from the candy jar? And then like, I can say yes, and then the human being will react a certain way, or I can say no, and they'll react a different way. So if we think about why do I lie, it's to change the reaction of another human being. And literally what it is, it's about controlling another human being. Okay? This is why people lie. It's all about control. And even when we lie to ourselves, that too is about control, because we're trying to protect ourselves or control a particular opinion that we have about ourselves. And we can maybe get into that later if you guys want to. But the first thing that you guys have to understand is that lying is about control. And what we're trying to do is control the actions of another human being. So then we have to think a little bit about, you know, how do we know if someone is going to lie? And so a couple of things that we have to think about, one is, you know, what's at stake? So okay. What are the consequences? And then secondly, what is this person's threshold for dealing with consequences? What is, sorry. And this is for consequences. Okay? So these are actually, I think, the most important things right here, because if you can understand these two pieces, why isn't this capturing? You guys see this? We'll see if we can get this running again, but I can just tell you guys. So basically, let's just think about lying, right? So people lie to control consequences. And if you think about it, like, you know, you're lying to create a particular outcome. So the questions that you need to ask yourself when you're trying to tell if somebody is lying is, first of all, what's the consequence if they lie? And the higher the consequences, the more that they need to control your behavior, because that's really what it's about, right? It's about them saying words that control your reaction. And so you need to stop thinking about, you know, does this person is, you know, what's the percentage chance that they're telling the truth? Is it true, untrue? Forget about all that. The question that you need to ask yourself is, does this person have a vested interest in controlling my behavior? And if they have a vested interest in controlling your behavior, they are far more likely to lie. The second thing to understand about the person is how comfortable are they with the consequences of their actions? So some people, and we can kind of think about this a little bit like integrity. But you know, some people are comfortable with the consequences of their actions. Like if they, you know, if they fucked up and they're okay with standing being fucked up, like they're okay, like telling other people like, you know, yeah, I made a mistake. If you want to fire me, go ahead and fire me. It's not that big of a deal. Like I understand I deserve to be fired. Go ahead and fire me. And then other people are paranoid about getting fired. So some people are more comfortable accepting the consequences of their actions and other people are like less comfortable accepting the consequences of their actions. And so if someone, if someone has demonstrated to you that they're comfortable accepting the consequences of their actions, and we can call that integrity, but I think like integrity is like hard to measure. So it's like literally what does this person when they make mistakes, do they actually own up to them? And do they accept the consequences of their mistakes? Or do they not? And so if someone accepts the consequences of their actions, then you know, they're less likely to lie because in a sense they've got thicker skin. So if I'm willing to get hit or get hurt or get, you know, yelled at by someone else, I don't need to control them because the consequence of them yelling at me is something that I can withstand. So in a sense, like the more people can withstand the consequences of actions, the less likely they are to lie and the less likely that they are to control you because they don't need to control you because it doesn't, you know, they can survive if you get mad at them. And so there's nothing about like, so I think these are really basically the two things, which is, you know, what does does this person need to control me with their words? Like, that's the question that you need to ask yourself, right? So I'll give you guys a couple of examples. So I work with people who have addiction problems, right? So they frequently lie. And even though they're good people and they try to live honest lives and all that kind of stuff, like they're not liars. There aren't like liars and not liars, right? That's kind of a big problem is that people think about people like some people have integrity and other people don't have integrity and some people are liars and not liars. So the issue is all about consequences. So like if I have someone who, you know, is addicted to opiates and has ADHD, we just have to think a little bit about like, okay, like, does this person need to lie to me about what they're using in order to continue to get Adderall out of me? And if the answer is yes, then oddly enough, I sort of presume that they're lying until I get concrete evidence that they're not, right? So like they're going to lie to get what they need out of me. So then the issue is how do you work with someone who has an opiate problem and needs Adderall? So I can try to like control them in return, but really what I want to do is create a safe space, right? And this is why I really need to be able to draw this shit because this is hard to explain. Okay, I'm going to try this again. Okay, work, safe. So now I want to show you guys something, okay? Okay. Oh God, I must paint this so much worse. Okay. So, so people lie because the consequences high, right? So high consequence is going to increase the chance of lying, right? And then low consequence is going to decrease, oh sorry. Oh, one second. Saved. Yo, what's up? What's going on? I thought I did change the layout. Changed, changed, saved. This is right, right? Yeah, this is good. Meet yourself, meet yourself kid. Meet yourself, kid. Meet yourself, kid. Meet yourself, kid. Meet yourself, kid. Meet yourself, kid. Okay. All right, so this is working, right? Saved, okay. So, so the question is if we want to control, like if we want to catch people in lying, if they have a high consequence, then they're going to lie. And if they have a low consequence, then they're going to tell the truth. Okay, so the question is like then the other thing here is that, you know, the more tough or more resilient they are against consequences, the less likely they are to lie. So the question is if you're dealing with someone who may be lying, how do you move from here to here, right? So how can you, as the person who someone may be lying to, go from a high consequence place to a low consequence place? And this is saving. Okay, so if you're trying to get someone to not lie to you, what you have to do is make it safe for them to tell you the truth. And this is really, really tricky, right? Because when you make it safe for them to tell the truth, you're lowering the consequence of their lying, which in turn means that they don't need to lie to you anymore. So I'll tell, I'll give you guys an example. So I'll tell someone, I'll be like, hey, man, so like I know that you need Adderall for me. And, you know, I'm concerned that you're using opiates and you're not going to lie. And I'm concerned that you're using opiates again, because, you know, you've been like canceling appointments and things like that. And like, I know that a lot of times people who slip up with their opiates, prescribers sort of say, like, I'm not going to prescribe you any controlled substances. But that's not true. I mean, you have a diagnosis of ADHD and if you need your Adderall, that's okay. But we got to figure out, like, you got to understand, just think about this for a second. It's not like I'm never going to prescribe you Adderall again. It's just, I don't want to keep on prescribing you Adderall if you're using opiates, but the purpose of the Adderall is so that you can work well, right? Like that's why we give you the medication so that you can do a good job. And if you're using again, like you're not going to be doing a good job. So it's kind of like you're missing the point, man. I'm like, I'm not interested in punishing you and taking away your Adderall. What I'm interested in doing is like the Adderall is there for a particular goal. And I'm afraid that you're not meeting that goal. And that has nothing to do with the Adderall. It's because you're fucking using again. So like we got to fix that, man. And when you say something like that and you kind of let them know, you know, like it's not like I'm just going to take away your Adderall. I may stop prescribing it. And sometimes I'll even tell them that I'll be like, I'm not comfortable prescribing you Adderall, you know, unless I'm like assured that you're kind of doing okay with the opiates. And the interesting thing is that when I say something like that, I'm actually creating the consequence that they don't want without them even saying anything. I'm like threatening to sort of take the Adderall away. And so oddly enough, it's sort of like, you know, if using Adderall, okay. And if not using, so I'm going to just change colors here and set. Right. So basically what I'm doing is I'm saying that it doesn't matter what you're doing because the consequences can be the same. If I'm worried about you, I'm going to stop prescribing Adderall. So the point here is that we're not changing, we're changing, we're decreasing our consequences because if I'm not going to prescribe Adderall anyway, then like he doesn't need the lighting. Right. Or she does this make sense? I need to kind of check in with chat for a second. You guys following this? Okay. So like this is exactly what I'm saying is that if you want to understand lying, you've just got to think about consequences and think about like under what circumstances would this person lie? Does this person need to control me? And if you want to get the truth out of someone, you've got to just think about, okay, how can I create a safe space for them to tell me the truth? Or how do I impose the consequence even without them like lying? And the funny thing, this is the cool thing is that when you do that, then people just tell you the truth because they're like, you know, fuck it. If you're not going to prescribe the Adderall, like I'm using opiates, please don't stop prescribing Adderall. I really am using opiates. That's actually what they say. They come clean then and there. When you're like, yeah, man, I don't know what's going on. It just seems like you're not able to keep your shit together. I'm not sure. I know you say you're not using anymore, but I just don't feel comfortable prescribing Adderall. They're like, I am using opiates. And when you say it like that, it sort of switches it around. Right. And then it's like, okay, man, well, let's work on that. And then what you do if you want to work with people who are lying is that you reward good behavior. Right. So then I say, okay, let's get you sober. Why don't you go into rehab for a while? And then once you're done with rehab, if you can stay clean for two weeks, I'll prescribe your Adderall again. And then they're like, okay, great. So do you guys see when someone comes clean to you and you don't punish them for it, what you're doing is going back to creating safety. So this is the key thing. So I guess, you know, I guess this talk was supposed to be how to detect someone's line, but I guess really what it's turning into is how to get people to stop lying to you. And the way that you get people to stop lying to you is you create an area of safety where you kind of say, look, you know, let's use another example where, you know, you're afraid that someone is cheating on you. So that's a very common one. Then you once again, you got to think through, like, what are the consequences if this person is cheating on me? Like, are they financially dependent on me? Do they live with me? Do I support them? If all of those things are true, then the likelihood for them to lie is way higher. And then, you know, because the consequences of like them coming clean, if they're afraid that you're going to break up with them or something like that, and then like those consequences are really, really high. So then you have to be like extra careful because they have a big, big incentive. The cost to them being caught in their lie is very, very high. So they're going to do everything that they can to keep you to control your behavior, to not break up with them. And so oddly enough, if you're in that situation, you know, then the next question that you have to ask yourself is like, is this person, you know, what's their threshold? Right. So what's their damage resistance? Right. Like, how much can they tank damage? So when they screw up, are they people that have pretty high damage resistance and they can like withstand it? Like, is this someone who even if they, you know, are financially dependent on me, like, you know, they're the kind of person that if I kicked them out the door, like they recognize that that's fair and that they can handle it and they'll be okay. Because if their damage resistance is high, then they're less likely to lie. And then kind of the third kind of thing to think about is how can you create a safe space? Right. So like if you're concerned that your partner is cheating on you, you can just sort of say like, look, so and now what we're going to do is trust. Not. So I'll show you guys like the cheating example. Okay. So let's talk about cheating. So the issue with cheating is that if cheating. Trust, right. If not cheating. So then what we do, so like normally the way that we look at it is this, right. If cheating, no trust. And if not cheating trust. So what do we do if you want to talk to this person and get them to come clean? I guess what this is really turning into is how to manipulate liars. This is what you have to do. So how do you do that? So what you say is, look, I'm concerned that you're cheating on me. And there are a couple of things like I saw some disturbing text messages on your phone. And, and like, basically, I find myself like not trusting you. And I know that you say you're not doing anything, but like, I'm really, really having difficulty trusting you. And even if you are cheating, like what would feel better to me is like what I want from you is honest. Like, I don't really care about whether you're cheating or not. What I really want is honesty. And because if you are cheating, like I value our relationship. And if you're, you know, if you regret it, then like, I think we should try to move past it and we can try to work past it. But I need to know one thing. I need to know one way or the other. Right. Like, I just don't want to be lied to. And we can think about how to move forward because everyone makes mistakes. And then just tell me if it's going on because like, I'm worried about it. And I find it like, it's hard for me to trust you right now. And so what you're trying to do there is like, you're creating, even though you're knocking off trust, you're increasing the safety of the space. Right. You're giving them a chance. You're kind of saying like, I want you to come clean. And even if you come clean, it doesn't mean that things are over between us. And so what oftentimes what people say is they'll say like, oh, like, you know, if you're cheating on me, fuck you. You're done with you. I'm done with you for the rest of your life. This and this and this. And people say that shit. What they don't realize is all you're doing is incentivizing that person to lie to your face. Like, sure. It feels good to say that. And then what happens is they say, yeah, I really am cheating on you. And then you stay calm for a little while and you say like, okay, how long has it been going on? And you kind of try to control your emotions a little bit. And then like, you know, you talk about it for like a day or two and then you decide where you are with that. Can you forgive them if you can't forgive them? Because you don't need to forgive them. And then what you do is you kick their ass to the curb. You're like, yeah, I want you to move out by the end of the week. I don't think I can like, like, I don't know if I can come back from this or not. I really appreciate your honesty. And then you fucking kick them with the curb. Right. You create a safe space. Then you stab them in the back. Because they fucked you and that's not fair. But sometimes I'll, you know, I think you should give it a fair shot. And I got to see Chad's reaction when I say that because I'm just trying to figure out, you know. But seriously, like that's how it is, right? Like, let's be honest. Like you want to be honest with them and then you got to kind of let them know. Like you give it a fair shot. And then if you can't be on, like if you can't forgive them, then you can't forgive them. And then you send them out the door. And isn't that manipulative? Absolutely. It's absolutely manipulative. What are they fucking lying to you? Then like what? You're just going to take it laying down? And so, like, you know, I think like if someone does you wrong, then, you know, you could like, I don't know. Right. It's not gender dependent, by the way, guys. Like I said, kick them to the curb, right? So there are a lot of deadbeat dudes that cheat on their girlfriends and deadbeat dudes that cheat on their boyfriends and deadbeat girls that cheat on their girlfriends. It's like there's the whole spectrum. It's really not gender dependent. But I think the key thing here is, you know, you have to figure out, like you have to think about like who's being controlled and how you're being controlled and think about how to create a safe space. And I genuinely do think that, you know, if you want a relationship to work and there's been cheating that has gone on, you have to have honesty. Because the whole point is if trust is gone, then the relationship is dead from the inside. Like that's not solve. I mean, it's not fixable. If the trust is dying, the trust is dying. And then you've got to kind of, you know, you got to work from there. Like it's not, I don't think that that's manipulative at all. So I'm not saying that, you know, if someone confesses to you that they're cheating, I think you should really give that fair consideration and think about what's going on with your relationship. No, I don't think it's eye for an eye at all. Like I don't think that helps anything. The issue is like, how do you, because think about it for a second. If someone cheats on you, that trust is dead already. So you have to build that trust up. And if you want to build that trust up, like you can't do it without honesty, right? So, I mean, this is kind of tricky, but that's kind of where it starts. And then if you can't build that trust or you do need your space, then I think it's fine to break up with them. Like when you're creating a safe space, you're not promising that you're going to be with them forever. I think you should be honest. And what you're saying is like, I need a chance to move past this. And in order to do that, what I need from you is honesty, which is absolutely true. And then, you know, be careful because like, if you don't really believe that, then I wouldn't recommend that you lie to them. But I think you should give it a fair shot and kind of say, like, it's interesting. I had a conversation with my wife about this and maybe, you know, it's blending into relationship advice, but we talked a little bit about, like, you know, what of us had an affair? Like, what would we do about it? How would we handle it? And she was a little bit surprised by my answer. And I was like, I would absolutely tell you. And she was like, why? I was like, because I think it's you have the right to decide whether you stay in this relationship or not. Like, it's not my place to decide for you whether you stay in this relationship. It's your choice. Anyway, that's kind of neither here nor there. And so that's why I think even if you have had an affair, like, you should tell your partner if you really care about them, because if you really care about them, they deserve to be with someone who hasn't had an affair with them, right? And that may not be you. And so, like, just because it doesn't serve, like, I just don't think like that. And yeah, it's weird. Like, I know it's weird because, like, it comes down to, like, self-interest and control. And, like, I don't think it's my place to control her decision about who she dates. It's her choice, right? And it's, like, my job to try to make the relationship as, like, positive for her as she can, as I can. And it's her job to make the relationship as positive as she can for me. And that's how, like, the relationship works. Okay, but we kind of got us straight. So just to recap a little bit, okay, we're going to go back to this. Okay, so just to kind of recap, how do you, you know, how do you think about whether someone is lying or not lying? So the first thing is that you've got to think about, think about it as control and think about does this person have a vested interest to control me? And if they have a vested interest to control me, how do you think about that? And if they have a vested interest to control you, your antenna should be raised. The second thing is what is this person's damage resistance? How likely are they to face their consequences? This is the best way to put it. Are they, no, are they consequence avoidant? Okay, and the more consequence avoidant they are, the more likely they are to lie, right? And if we think about it, like, gamers are really big liars. And if we think about, like, you know, I remember when, you know, my parents would call me up when I was like 21 or 20, and they would ask me how did class go today? And I said, fine. And that was a fucking lie because I didn't even go to class. But I was so damn consequence avoidant, like I was so avoidant that there's no way I'm ever going to tell the truth because if I tell them, yeah, it didn't go well, then they ask me why, and then I have to answer, and then I have to tell them that I'm playing games all day and I'm a piece of shit. And then I have to say those words out loud. And like, all I want to do is like not think about any of that. I just want to go back to like playing Diablo and like not worry about any of that shit. So I'm very consequence avoidant. Right? And we see this in our population where everyone makes these big bold claims about how awesome they are at life and how much they get laid and how big their dick is and all this kind of crap. And that's all because they're consequence avoidant. So the equation is kind of, you know, what's the consequence? How consequence avoidant are they? Okay. And then that sort of gives you the general idea of how likely they are to lie. Okay. So then, you know, high likelihood. Low likelihood. Right? So then you kind of like in your mind, you split people into two camps. Which camp are they in? High likelihood or low likelihood? And then there are a couple of clues that you can kind of use, but these are sort of notorious. So the first thing is like, you can't, you know, people talk about like, oh, if someone looks up to the left and looks up to the right, like I think all that crap is so imprecise that I would not bet any amount of money on like making that, you know, you can't make a relationship decision based on whether where someone's eyes go. It's just a bad way to navigate a relationship. Okay. So here's the first thing that you guys need to look for is affect. Now here's, now we talk about detection. Okay. So, so we talk about affect. We talk about a hum car. Let me think about this. So we're going to talk about affect first and then a hum car. So affect is the display of emotion. So I do this a lot on stream where, you know, I'll point out to people that they're like smiling. And then like, who was it? Who's a dire, was it dire? I think, you know, a week ago, we had a stream with dire, which was really fantastic. And he told this story and he was laughing. He was like, yeah, I was playing baseball and I was scared of the ball. And my dad threw the ball at me and it hit me in the eye. And he's like, that's so funny. I got hit. Like my dad threw baseball and it hit me in the eye. And he was laughing and like, that's, I don't know. I was like, dude, that's weird, man. Like, why are you laughing? Like, that's not funny, man. So someone, so affect is the emotion that you see in someone's face. And sometimes it's discongruent. Okay. And what I mean by discongruent is it's not like it's, it doesn't match with like what they're saying. So a discongruent affect is a sign that there's something weird going on in someone's like head. So if they're like laughing about something that, that really terrible happened to them, or another good example is like, you know, when we talk to, um, XQC or Pokimane about like, you know, what it feels like to be successful. And we asked them and like, they don't feel successful at all. They feel like failures. That's another example of a discongruent affect because you would expect that someone who is accomplished so much should feel good about themselves, but they don't feel good about themselves. They like beat themselves up further and they like, don't let themselves sit with that idea and all that kind of good stuff. So you can have a discongruent affect where someone should be happy and they're not happy, or you can have a discongruent affect where someone should be crying. And instead what they're doing is laughing because humor is a defense mechanism. All so that's just explaining what affect is. Does that make sense? I got to check in with Chad again. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. No. So there's, my point is that the expressions on someone's face give you a clue as to what's going on on the inside. And sometimes what they show in their face doesn't match up with what they should, they should be showing. And that's what a discongruent affect is. I know I need to get a second monitor. I just don't, I didn't have time to set it up. No, I don't have a second monitor. COVID. Okay. So let's talk, let's go back to line. So how do we use affect in terms of lying? So the main thing here to watch out for is like, if you say something, look for an affective change. So ignore the words that come out of their mouth because they're not going to be able to do that. They're not going to be able to do that. Look for an affective change. So ignore the words that come out of their mouth because like liars, like the instrument that they use to control you is words, right? That's literally what lying is. It is speaking words that are false. So the way to detect someone is lying is not to pay attention to their words. And in fact, it's to completely ignore their words and pay attention to their face. Right? So like, look at what happens. Like if I say, Hey, where were you today? Oh, I was nowhere. No, what? What? No, I was nowhere. And like that should not elicit an affective response. Right? Like that doesn't, that shouldn't elicit any kind of affect. It's like, where, like, where were you? And what were you up to? And then if they have an affective response to that, that's kind of like a clue. And then as you talk to them, you know, try to think a little bit about like, if you're talking to them, like notice what's going on with their affect. Like there may be times where they should be displaying more affect. Like they should feel offended or whatever. And like they're like stone cold even, or like they should be like, you're asking an innocent question and they have an affective response. Hi. Come back. Okay. Hi. Let's go eat. Go eat my loves. No. Okay. Hi darlings. Okay. Ganked. Okay. We are waiting. Okay. So, all right. So the interesting thing, this one doesn't know how to lie. The other one is a very good liar. Dude, she's like so good at lying. Okay. Did you have fun today? We're talking about lying. Do you know what lying is? Lying. What's lying? Perfect. Say that way forever. Okay. So let's keep going. So the second thing is like don't pay attention to their words. Pay attention to their affect. So what they display on their face. And especially like dis-congruent affect. And this can be tough because if you're concerned that someone is lying, it's completely reasonable for them to be kind of calm with it because they're like trying to remain calm and it's perfectly reasonable for them to be angry. So it's not like, you know, one or either of those things is going to be sufficient. Uh-oh, sounds like someone's crying. Okay, let's go drop you off. Can I go drop you off? Let's go see why Virabena is crying. And then daddy will finish his lecture. Okay? All right. Okay, go, go, go. Go give Virabena a hug. Go. Go, go, go. All right. Okay. Can you guys hear that? The crying in the background. All right. So back to the lecture. So pay attention to their face and pay attention to their emotional response. And you can't, you know, it's not like a smoking gun, but it's going to sort of like clue you in. It's not going to like, you don't want to get diverted by their words. And then, um, you know, the second thing to think about is their ego. So ahamkara is the Sanskrit word for ego. And oftentimes ego can be a sign of, it's a protective mechanism and it can be like a sign of, you know, kind of impending danger. Um, and so if someone's ego becomes like pretty active, um, and how can I explain how, what that looks like? Yeah, that's actually, so like, if you see kind of like, if they go on the attack, if you express concerns, like that's a sign of the ego. So like, if they start to attack you in some way, if they start to like ask, like, I don't ask you this kind of stuff, like, why are you asking me? They make comparisons and they go on the attack. So those are the two things that you want to look out for in terms of activity of the ego. Okay, so. They go on the offensive. Or they make comparisons. And so you have to watch out for these two things. I mean, the really tricky thing about this is that this doesn't necessarily mean that they're lying. Like, they could just be hurt. So the tricky thing about this is like, if they're hurt, like, if you say something, like, that can activate the ego, or they can feel like fear that you're going to catch them and that can activate the ego. So neither of these is a smoking gun. Okay. And then the last thing to kind of think about is actually your gut. Okay, so I think at the end of the day, most human beings are pretty good. So you do all this stuff, right? Like, so you put your hands on your chest, you put your hands on your chest, you put your hands on your chest, you put your hands on your chest. So you do all this stuff, right? Like, so you figure out are they like high likelihood, low likelihood, you pay attention to their affect and especially about whether it's congruent or discongruent. You kind of watch out for the ego. And at the end of the day, like, you can't know whether someone is lying, right? There's no way of knowing for sure whether someone is lying. And so what it kind of comes down to is your gut. And what I ultimately, the first thing that you've got to figure out is like figure out is my gut pretty good? Right, so like, are you someone that generally is accurate? Are you filled with social anxiety and insecurity? Because if you're filled with social anxiety and insecurity, like, don't trust your gut. It's hard to not do that. But like, stop and think about that. Or are you like pretty good at judging people and like, are you good? Like, is your gut like tuned well or is it like out of tune? And so ultimately, I mean, I think you should go with your gut. It doesn't mean that you should break up with someone because you think they're cheating on you or something like that or fire someone because you think they're stealing. I think you should use your gut to kind of guide you and then collect evidence because that's ultimately what it comes down to. So when I'm working with people who have substance use disorders, at the end of the day, I sort of have an internal sense of whether I think this person is lying or not lying. But that's not what I base any of my actions on. Right. And this is the last thing about lying that's really, really important to understand is that the way that you should deal with lying shouldn't be based on your feelings. It should be based on data or kind of thinking through things. So just because I think someone is cheating on me is not a sufficient reason to break up with them. But if my gut is pretty good and they're being kind of shady, then I think it's reasonable to like for me to actually try to collect evidence to see if my gut is right or is wrong. Or is like worth it to have a conversation with them about why I feel the way that I feel and see if they can help me figure out what's going on here. Like, why do I feel this way? And ultimately, let your gut be the guide for whether you collect evidence or don't collect evidence. Think about whether this person has a high likelihood or low likelihood of lying to you. And then use affect and a hump gar. Pay attention to their ego and pay attention to their face to try to deduce what you think is going on. And then once you calculate all those kind of variables and you have like, OK, either I'm going to be assured or I'm not going to be assured. Then if you're so let me write this out. OK, so here's here's the final thing. OK, all right, so. OK, so. High consequence. Versus low consequence. And then. And then. Let's call it consequence. Avoid it. Versus. Consequence. Embracing. OK, so a combination of this. These two gives you their likelihood, right? So that plus. Discongruent affect. So what this congruent affect means? Or congruent affect. Plus. I ego response. Or low. Ego response. OK, and that ends up with your gut. Gut has a high suspicion. Misspelled that word. Or low. Suspicion. OK. And then what happens is you've got two choices. So you can. Investigate, which I think is reasonable. OK, or you can converse. And this is what you do right? So if I don't cross that someone is. Is being honest with me, I'm going to drug test them. Right, or you know if you're paranoid, you can hire a private investigator if you're concerned that someone's cheating on you. Right. You can. You know, talk to other people, I guess, but that's not really a great way. Or you can converse and then like you have, you know, you kind of talk about. And what you do when you converse is like create a safe space. Right, you kind of talk about trust. And then we kind of go back to like this stuff over here. So this is the point of conversing. Is to handle this stuff. And then hopefully at the end of it, what you're going to end up with is is being, you know, the goal here is to like. Do all this crap and then end up being. Reassured. Or to have honesty. And that's really the goal. And this is this is how you deal with wires. Or people have this is how you deal with concerns that people are lying. OK. Questions, thoughts. OK, so look. OK, so now we have a question here. I've been a pathological liar my whole life, and I realize that I'm all alone and don't have anyone I can call real friends or family. This causes me a lot of distress. I've lied to anyone that I've crossed paths with, even those who are close to me telling the truth now would be devastating is it would end my relationships with everyone I know. What advice would you give to anyone who's been a pathological liar? What advice do you have for pathological liars who want to change? So I want you guys to pay attention to this, OK? We're going to do this this thing. So now we see why this person lies. We're going to do this. We're going to do this. This. We're going to do. This. And we're going to do this. OK, OK. This. This. Do this. So I want you guys to just look at this, OK? I've been a pathological liar my whole life, and I realized. Oh, shit. Let me get rid of this. Fuck. I don't know. It's whatever. Good call. Copy. Merge formatting. Keep text only. Yeah, it's still keeping it. Whatever. OK, so I think this is the thing. So I've been a pathological liar my whole life. I've lied to blah, blah, blah. This is the problem sentence. You guys ready for it? So now we see why this person lies, right? Oh, God. OK, telling the truth now would be devastating as it would end my relationships with everyone I know. So this is the reason this person lies, because this is a high consequence, and the person is consequence avoidant. And this is how a pathological liar is born. You guys see that? Like, does that make sense? This is exactly what a pathological liar is. It's someone who has to control the opinions of other people around him or her. And if we think a little bit about, like, how does this person move forward? So it starts with those two things, right? It starts with being less conflict. I mean, consequence avoidant. It comes with being consequence embracing. And for you to recognize that you've got two options in life. One is that you can continue living a lie, and at some point it's going to come crumbling down because it comes crumbling down. And secondly, you may not be as good of a liar as you think you are. Most people may know that you're kind of full of shit and they just don't give a fuck because they're living their own lives and they don't have time to waste on you and, like, catching you out to be a liar. Or you can start to build relationships and meet new people with whom you're honest. And this is where now we get to some interesting stuff. OK, so like, let's talk about lying about yourself. So if you want to conquer lying, if you're a liar, and just think about this because lying is about control, right? It's about controlling your, it's about controlling other people's responses to you. And that's why a pathological liar lies. He probably lies about his job. He lies about, I'm assuming it's a dude, but, you know, he lies about his job. He lies about his relationships, lies about all kinds of things. And it also becomes, like, random. Like, sometimes they just start lying because they don't know what else to do. So if you want to conquer lying, you have to start by understanding what are you lying to control, right? That's where you start to overcome lying in your life and in yourself. Like, what are you trying to control by telling this lie? What is the response you're hoping to create? What is the outcome that you're hoping to avoid? Because lying is about avoidance of an outcome. And then when you dig into that, you're going to find out what is it that I care about? And then when you dig into that, you're going to find out what is it that I care about? Why is it important that people view me in this way? And if you're lying about it, you care about it in some way. So most gamers lie out of fear of a particular consequence. And they strive to control other people's reactions to them, right? So like, parents taking my games away, continuing to get financial support by lying about your school performance. That's something that I did to my parents. Lying to an essay at a significant other about how much you play games to keep them in the relationship. And eventually what you're going to figure out is that you're trying to prevent a particular outcome. And that particular outcome is a fear, right? You have a fear that your significant other is going to leave you. You have a fear that you're going to drop out of college. You have a fear that you're going to be laughed at by your friends or never invited to another party. And chances are for most of you guys, if you're like me, it's the fear of being like a fuck up and being behind in life. It's like being nowhere in life. But the thing is, if you're a pathological liar and you're lying to everyone, you actually are behind in life. You are a fuck up. You're already a fuck up. But what you're afraid of is everyone knowing that you're a fuck up, but it's already true. And so if you want to stop lying, what you have to do is face the fear that you're trying to control. That's what it comes down to. And this is where it gets really sad, is because you believe that about yourself, right? It's not even a fear in your mind. You're afraid that other people are going to know it, but you believe that if you show them the honest version of yourself, they're going to reject you. Just think about that for a second. When someone's a pathological liar, the thing that they actually fear the most is already true in their mind because they think that they're a fuck up. They think that they're a fuck up. You've accepted that in your life, you are a fuck up and you're never going to amount to anything. And then you just have to lie to keep people from realizing it. And that's a really, really, really, really problematic way to look at yourself because you just can't win there, right? Like there's no amount of lying that's going to cover up for the fact that you're a fuck up. And this is vital because what you're afraid of is already happening and you're just trying to hide it. Your worst fear is actually true. And this is the really important thing because hiding it doesn't actually help because the problem is already there, right? So like all hiding does is actually propagate the problem. And so what you need to do is change that belief about yourself that you are messed up, that you are behind and that you need to be ashamed of yourself. And the really, really sad thing is that the people who you're afraid that they're going to abandon you when you tell them the truth, those are actually the people that are the most likely to help you actually make a change. If I feel like I'm worthless in life and I don't want anyone to know, like let's say I don't want my older brother to know or I don't want my parents to know, I don't want my friends to know. And then what happens is I propagate this lie and I don't actually like get any better, right? But instead what I need to do, if I actually want to change on the inside, I need those people's help. And so when you lie to other people and you don't tell them what's going on with you, you're propagating a fantasy while maintaining a reality that is like the very thing that you fear. And you're also cutting out the people who can actually help you make a change in your life. Just think about this. If you think that you're a nothing in life and you go to someone, like let's say you go to your best friend and you say, hey man, I've been lying to you for years. I remember a friend of mine did this. He came to me one day and he said, I actually like lied. I never graduated. We were in college together and he came to me like a couple of years later and he's like, I lied? I never graduated. I just dropped out of school and I pretended to go to school. And in that moment, he was looking for rejection. He was like, man, fuck you. But I'm not going to say that. I'm like, man, dude, that sucks. I barely passed. How are you doing with that, man? It sounds like you... Those are the people that you actually need to accept. And then once those people accept you, once they see you for all of the piece of crap that you are, worthless and all this kind of stuff, and then they don't run away, then this part inside starts to change. This part starts to change and you're like, oh, wait a minute. Maybe I'm not messed up because these people are accepting me for who I am. Maybe I'm actually an okay person. And so you have to face your fear in order to overcome it. And you have to acknowledge where you are in order to go where you want. So when you lie to other people, you deny where you are. And this is why you're stuck. Because it's like you're trying to navigate on a map and you're not telling the GPS where your real location is. How the fuck are you going to go anywhere if the GPS doesn't know where you are? You have to start from where you are. And it's a really sad scenario. Why is everyone saying all but four? I'm confused. Okay. Anyway. So that's what I think is going on. So at the end of the day... Anyway, I was ranting for a while. Does that make sense? Okay. What if they... Then they reject, man. And this is the cool thing. If they reject, right? If they reject you, then what? Then you wake up the next day and you take a dump and you make yourself a cup of coffee and life goes on. This is the thing is people's rejection, I know it hurts, but your life doesn't come to a grinding halt. I think the world would be a far better place. And the people, our audience would be so much better off if they realize that rejection does not destroy you. This is the big thing that I learned. This is why I'm such a big fan of failure. When getting 80, 90, 100 rejections from med schools and plastering up on my... I wish I'd kept those. And then when I got into med school, I remember there's this one day... Okay, story time. You guys want story time? Okay. So I had been rejected a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot. And then I realized, okay, I got into med school and I was happy and I realized... I had looked into the chasm of absolute failure and then I had jumped in and I had wallowed around in the dark for a little while and then I'd crawled out. And then I remember there was this one day where we were on surgery and sometimes people... Surgeons can be mean to medical students, happens. And so I was doing vascular surgery and we were doing something called a carotid endarterectomy. And what a carotid endarterectomy is, you have two carotid arteries that basically carry blood from your heart to your brain. They're the two biggest forms of circulation. You also have a vertebral artery in the back. So a carotid endarterectomy is sometimes these get clogged with plaque from eating unhealthy and stuff like that. And then they narrow and then you don't have enough blood flow going to the brain. And if they get super, super small, once they get around 70% clogged, then you have to actually go in and take them out. You have to take out all that crud and you have to reopen the artery. So we were doing this operation on someone. So there's a vascular surgeon who's like, we've got the dude's neck opened up and he's trying to repair a carotid artery or whatever. And then the field of view for a carotid artery, which means the actual space that you're operating in is tiny. You have this part of the neck opened up. So it's maybe two inches across it at maximum. And, okay, I don't know what's the... Okay, I don't know what people are talking about here. I'm just gonna keep telling my story. So the surgeon's operating there and I'm not really doing a whole lot because I'm a medical student. You can't, you know, it's like, you have to really be precise. And if I nick the wrong thing, the dude could have a stroke and die. So I'm not doing any of that. So I'm just kind of there and I'm watching. He's on one side of the table and I'm on the other side of the table. I'm basically holding something called a retractor, which is like, I'm holding the skin open so that he can operate. And then he nicks something, okay? And so the blood starts working and then it fills up because it's a tiny space, right? So it only takes like maybe five millimeters of blood to like fill up the space that you can't see the artery in. And he's like looking for where he nicked it. And then, so it's a stressful situation and like he's on one side of the table and I'm on the other side of the table. So we get a suction and we suction out the blood and for a flash of a second before it fills up again, we have a clear view. And what do I see on my side? I see a spurting fountain of blood. Like I see exactly where the nick is and he can't see it. He's looking for it. He suctions again and he like looks again and he suctions, but he's on the wrong fucking side of the table because I like, I can see it because I'm on my side of the table. So B being dumb, you know, I say, excuse me, Dr. So-and-so, I think I, the nick is here. It's on this side. And then what does he say? He says, med student, when I want your opinion, I will ask for it. And I was like, dude, are you fucking kidding me? And like, I'm like, the guy's going to have a stroke and you can't find where the nicked artery is. And it's like, literally, because I'm on the other side of the table. It's not an opinion, man. The guy's blood is spurting and he's like, he's going to die. He's not going to die. You're going to have a stroke. And then, so there were two fellows with me and one of them started cracking up a little bit, but, and then, so anyway, the artery got repaired because at the end of the day, the surgeon listened to what I had to say. And, you know, like that kind of shit happens all the time. And usually like med students get like hurt by it, right? They're like, oh, I tried to help and the surgeon yelled at me. And he like, I didn't know the answer to the question and they yelled at me and they hurt my feelings. Oh my God. And it's like, dude, it doesn't matter. Like, I don't think you guys understand. Like, this is the main thing. Like the med students have never failed anything in life. So they don't understand. Like failure doesn't destroy you. In fact, you just wake up the next day and then it's like, pog dump time. And then you take a dump and you move on with your life and you're still there and you've survived. And then like, you know, someone rejects you and then you're like, okay, so I guess they're not my friends anymore. And then you're like, okay, well, maybe next time what I should do is try to lie a little bit less. And then you meet another person and then, you know, you play games with them for a while and you ask them to hang out and they say, what do you do in life? And then you say, okay, I'm a, you usually lie about being a, you know, professional poker player or trader or whatever. You're like, yeah, I'm just trying to figure it out. You just say those words. And then something magical happens. So anyway, I'm going to go back. So like, anyway, I saw the nick, right? And I saw where it was and the dude ended up fine. And so like, this is the thing. And like a lot of medical students get bent out of shape over that sort of thing. When they get yelled at in the OR because they don't know the answer to the question or whatever, like it's just because the surgeon is an asshole. It's like, you're not doing anything wrong. And even if you are doing something wrong, like you're a medical student, like you're here to do things wrong. I don't think people get that, right? Students are expected to make mistakes. And if you're like living life, if you're a gamer, like you're expected to make mistakes, man. Like the real world is not like your video games. So you're going to make mistakes. Like that's okay, bro. Like just learn and get rejected by someone. And then on mobile with seven. Okay, I'm going to keep going. I'm just going to keep talking. Okay. So like, this is the thing. When you get rejected, like the next time around, you meet someone and then like, you're a little bit more honest with them. And when you tell them when they're like, hey, what are you doing? Instead of saying, yeah, I'm an attorney at so-and-so law firm, which is a complete lie. You're just like, yeah, man, I'm trying to figure it out. And then something magical is going to happen because then they're going to say, yeah, man, me too. And then you guys are going to like, you know, y'all are going to like be like, yeah, and this is going to be like a virtual fist bump where you're meeting them halfway and you guys are both trying to figure it out. And then it's like, cool. And then one day you guys can actually have a conversation about it, right? Because if you're the attorney in your mind and he thinks you're the attorney and then he like asks you for advice and then you feel good about yourself because you're giving him false advice but you don't know what the fuck you're talking about. Instead, what happens is you guys can be like authentic about it and you can be like, hey, man, like, I'm trying to figure this stuff out. Like, what are you doing to put your life together? He's like, dude, I'm playing a lot of video games and he's like, and you're like, yeah, man, me too. Like, what do you think, man? Should we do something about that? Like, let's try to figure that out. Like, how about I work on my resume, you work on your resume and we send it to each other in a week. And then like after we send each other resumes, we like queue up for Valorant and Dota or whatever and we play some games. And like that's how you move forward. But as long as you're lying, you're not like moving forward. Like you can't do that, right? Anyway, questions, thoughts? Is that enough about lying and story time and all that good stuff? We're playing some Dota. What are we doing? So, we're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing? We're going to play some Dota. What are we doing?