 I'm not impulsive. I sit in my basement and play video games all day. This is nice You know, it's not like hey, let's just have a kid today for fun It's that's not the kind of that's not the kind of decision-making you're gonna find here Yeah, you don't just randomly change your raid schedule just for any random Thank you Let's just work with what we've got That'll be fun so let's start off by can you all help me understand what what how should I address each of you? What should I call you yeah, I can be Sam Okay, nice to meet you Sam first first names. No problem. Okay, you guys can call me all over too Like or dr. K, you know, whatever people prefer and so Sam and Ben, can you all help me understand a little bit about how you guys got into streaming? I'll start because it's your origin story. So So way back when I think what? 2016 destiny one had a game mode called trials of Osiris added and I decided to I had like a channel that I used to use to watch myself AFK farm Diablo while I was at work Yeah, I'd never watched which at work. But yeah But it was it was like the origin of just the channel existing never really used it for anything until trials came out And then I started streaming to help my friend Brian try and grow his channel. I got pretty lucky Not to his benefit, but when he went to college he moved into a dorm that did not have Didn't have good internet so I benefited from that by continue I was like, I'm just gonna keep the our little community that we grew together Going I'll continue to stream on my channel because I was I already had like a career. I worked in IT for years and years I went to college and graduated all that and So I I was only streaming just to help him out and when he couldn't stream anymore I continued to keep things going and it just kind of grew from there I I think that I got lucky a bunch of times in a row to get to where I am now or maybe right place right time and capitalize on it and It did grew to where it is now And can do you guys mind if I so just a couple of ground rules? You know anything that you if I ask a question that y'all don't feel comfortable answering or is out of line in any way shape Or form just let me know But since we are talking about parenting, you know I thought I would ask y'all one or two questions about y'all's relationship and maybe how y'all met. Is that cool? So how did you guys meet? I'll take this one I lived in a duplex in college with four other girls and on the other side were five other guys And one of them happened to be Ben's childhood best friend And he came over to watch a Star Trek riff tracks movie. I don't remember I never remember which one it is Benjamin whatever Star Trek movie wrath of Khan Yeah, Shatner climbs, you know El Cap and Yosemite at the beginning of it But I was outside with one of the neighbor guys trying to help me fix my car and You know, it was just a POS and I was kicking it and Super upset because I needed to get to work the next day and Ben and the other guys walk up and they got my car started so I can go to work tomorrow and Like go clean up come over and watch this movie with us so you can relax. Okay, come over The whole entire thing everybody's talking and then this guy across the room just keeps like staring at me And he keeps trying to be part of this conversation Who the heck is this guy? Like who the heck is this guy? I don't know Yeah, it wasn't until I left That as I walked past him to leave to go to my side of the building He grabbed my arm and he's like, hey, I'm Ben and I was like, I'm Sam. Okay, bye It wasn't till like a couple weeks after we you know met that He added me on Facebook when it wasn't weird to add random people on social media Okay, yeah, this was before what it was like Weird yet to do that kind of stuff And He just we just started talking. I was casually seeing somebody else at the time and Basically, you know that guy Screwed up too many times and Ben was there when I was upset he was the first person I called crying because this guy stood me up and he was in the best part is is he never was pushy about it like But he also wasn't like complacent that I was seeing another guy He what it's not horrible I knew that you liked me, but it wasn't like you were trying to put yourself in between Like you were respectful that I was seeing somebody else Yeah, you also made sure to make it known that you really liked me and that you cared about me and stuff like that And so when I was sick of the other guy, I was just like, oh well, there's this dude here So he's really nice and then what we had our our first date Maybe like a week or so after we after I was done seeing that guy and there you go Yes, and what it's been 14 years this summer. Yep Yeah, so can I get Ben's version of events? Okay, so Okay I'll start getting so I my friend Tom and I we were gonna go over to hang out and watch Rift tracks dub of Rathcon. I was super excited and when we're we're walking up to duplex and there's this girl outside and a blue-and-white flannel shirt ripped up jeans, you know, it's kind of She was same age as us, but she was very frustrated with her vehicle and was swearing at it and so we offered to To help her with it and just like, you know, go relax. Yeah long day take shower you know get cleaned up come over and just hang out and and Forget about the problem for a little while. So she did that And while we're watching the movie We're all conversations I was not staring across the room I made glances as one does all right From time to time and I never got an opportunity to introduce myself directly So before she left I said, you know what eff it I reached out and I grabbed her arm and said hey By the way, I'm Ben and she said she sam and she left and that was it. It wasn't weird Okay, but it was definitely not pushy. It was one of those like hey, she's cute. I want to I don't even I didn't get a chance like directly interact with her at all. So I figured I might as well give it a shot and go for it and Like she said I did find her on on Facebook and added her and we started talking a little bit Do you remember the you're gonna go on a trip to Yosemite and do you remember what I said to you? I asked you how long before you leave. Yes Do you this is before is after I stopped seeing the other guy Yeah And you had said when are you supposed to go on that trip to Yosemite and I said two weeks and you're like, alright I have two weeks for you to go on a date with me then And it worked So that was I gotta say Ben well played sir, thank you. I appreciate that No, cuz like here's the thing right? So I think a lot of times like people say like oh nice guys finish last right, but like I think there's this very tricky tightrope of Like letting your intentions be known and like not pretending that nothing is going on and at the same time like still being respectful of boundaries Yeah, which is like really hard I think a lot of people like either they they don't they're not transparent enough Like I I'm you know, I'm a favorite. I'm in favor of being transparent and like if you have you know, if you're attracted to someone or interested in them and like like I think like Like solid bro, like, you know not letting her like you like, you know She's walking out the door taking your last chance to at least introduce yourself not asking for her number No compliments or anything just you know, cuz it says a lot but like it's also like really like it's super smooth The idea is kind of like I don't there's nothing to lose at that point. You might as well go for it, right? Yep, but also like but don't go too far. Oh, yeah, there's a line I could have been like hey, so you should stop what you're doing and hang out and talk with me right now That's obviously she was on her way out on the front porch with me and Chad That was not the goal. The goal was just literally to try and plant the seed which I know you could take all sorts of ways Because we have a kid now, but you know what I mean like it but to try and start some sort of conversation Can we just appreciate for a moment that Ben remembers what she was wearing? I wore that same shirt on our wedding day to to get to get ready specifically because he very much That was like his visual and I still have the shirt to this day It's yeah. So so let me ask you something Ben like and I sort of I have a hypothesis here How long did it take you to fall in love with Sam? I Probably with Internally probably not very long. I remember what would the first time would you remember where we were the first time I said to you? We were walking past the fabric section of Hobby Lobby. Yep And I and I said it and do you remember whether you said it back or not? Cuz I don't I don't think I said it back right away not And that was fine. Yeah, I've always been the girl that you know, I I felt like I had to say it back in my younger relationships But as I got older I was like no like they don't deserve that unless I'm ready for it, right? Yeah, and I wasn't gonna be I wasn't gonna try and force her to do or say something She didn't want to say but it would but like you said transparency is important So there's no reason for me to to not be open about how I felt I think you stopped me and you looked at me and said it and I just looked at I looked back at you and just Smiled and I gave you a hug and then we kept walking to like go buy yarn or something. Yep Sounds about right Yeah, I you know, I'm gonna say that I think maybe it was like maybe the moment you saw her just a tiny bit So if we think about neuroscientifically, okay, I know I know you guys have figured out it may not be true But here's just maybe I'm drawing from my own experience Which was that I fell absolutely in love with my wife the moment I saw her It just took me years to realize it and I think it's kind of interesting because like, you know If we look at memory in the way that memory works, you know, you can remember a moment from a decade ago and You cannot remember what you had for lunch two days ago. So Temporality has a piece of it Right. Yeah, but actually it's your current emotional state. That is the closest the Strongest influence for what you remember So like how deep a memory sinks in Depends on that emotional activation in that moment So it's really fascinating that you remember so many details like you guys remember so many details Like you remember like what the movie was you remember what the circumstances were you remember what she was wearing? Like you guys remember so much about it. Just think about this. This is what like, you know a 60 second span 14 years ago and it's like crystal clear in your mind Which is from like a neuroscience perspective implies one of two things either you guys have talked about it a ton which is certainly a possibility or But even that I think it's like something there's like a spark something like something like, you know sunk in and And so anyway, I just visual memory of Ben walking up to my car with the group of guys before I even met him Yeah, I have a very Split two second clip in my brain that maybe I created or not But I visually remember I was sitting on the curb and like even the angles of everything on my street and stuff like that Yeah, awesome. So it sounds like yeah Y'all's origin story is super dope. Let's put it that way and And so can can y'all help me understand a little bit? So you guys it sounds like y'all started dating and then Ben was streaming at that point already or no Okay, okay Okay, so I didn't actually start until after I had already graduated from college and had I had a career I worked in IT for a long time. I was a senior systems engineer at an insurance company where I live and Doing all the networking and data center management virtual machine deployment. I'm a big nerd is what it comes down to it's like IT and computer science. That was my thing. That's what I majored in in college and and all that and We I didn't actually even start streaming until was this was 20 2017 so I What year did I graduate from college? I don't remember 20 you graduated in 2005 from high school That's so 2009. So it was multiple years before I got pregnant though. So that would have been 2014 Well, that's that's when no 2017 is when 2016 is when I started then and the dates are all I literally my the date is based on an event in a game that I could go look up. I know exactly what it's like may the second week of May of 2016 had to be when I actually first started well, yes, sorry 2015 though And that would mean this way yeah, it would have been 2015 look at this is what happens when you get this old doing Twitch it's like everything blends together No, this is so it would have been 14. No, you're right. She's right as I'm sure as usual So so but you know, I just The reason I'm asking about the the streaming and the relationship thing is I'm really curious if you guys sort of it Cuz like here's Ben who's got a career, right? And then like the streaming is something that's like recreational hobby Like I'm really curious if you guys would be okay with sharing like what that conversation went like What the early days of streaming was like and if you guys sort of had a conversation about I'm assuming you don't work in IT anymore Okay, no, no, not anymore. And so just you know How did you guys as a as a couple kind of like make that transition and what are those conversations look like? It actually was pretty easy and this is largely in part the fact that she has always been super accepting of who I am Because I used to braid in Wow World Warcraft pretty religiously like five nights a week five hours a night after work we would get I'd get home from work and I'd Have dinner or whatever and then I'd sit down to raid for the evening and she would work on her photography stuff We'd be in the same room but it was and it was she's never looked at me and said you have to stop playing video games because she's she's always known that that's the biggest part of my life the most important thing as far as like hobbies go and So it was it was a no-brainer. Is she never tried to manipulate me or force me She never gave me an ultimatum quit gaming and hang out with me. You're too old for that because she knew she knew who she was Dating right. She it wasn't like she was trying to mold me into a person that I wasn't it's Because she accepted who I was and that's who she loved you were very upfront though like when we first started dating you're like it maybe was after about two weeks of us kind of seeing each other and You're like, hey, by the way, I Now that we're seeing each other more often you might notice that like I play video games a lot a lot I he was raiding like he said in World of Warcraft and it wasn't Until maybe a few months after he started dating. He actually changed his raid schedule to start later in the evening So by the time I would go home or go to bed He would start raid and I was just like well, obviously if this is important to him I'm not gonna take it away because I don't want to like I like him for who he is It's not for who I want to turn him into and he's making strides to Accommodate me. So why would I be upset that he's still you know plays games and stuff like that? So yeah, it we it's always been in our relationship that in the evenings we hang out Together but like kind of doing our own thing and then so even now like in the evening Probably goes to bed Ben goes downstairs and streams. I do my stuff after he's done streaming Watch a show and go to bed kind of thing. So So I'd like to revise what I said earlier about the moment Ben fell in love. I Think the moment he fell in love is when he moved his raid schedule to accommodate his girlfriend It's such a big sacrifice Ben To shift your raid schedule if you look at the in the grand scheme of things Maybe not but I think for me it was yeah, it was a big hobby related thing It was a part of my life and I and we decided that it was it was best for everybody involved Nobody else had a complaint that I was rating with and so it's like this is this is smartest thing to do, right? So, you know Sam I I really I'm hearing a lot here that sounds awesome Like this is like I don't know if you guys are pretending to be an awesome couple, but y'all Y'all are doing a lot of the things that I think the unhappy couples who wind up in my office don't do So it sounds like there's like a mutual kind of respect. It also sounds like there's like accommodations of each other It sounds like Sam never asked Ben to shift his raid schedule It's been communication transparency is yeah super helpful We have a rule especially with when it comes to streaming and gaming and stuff like that But usually for the most part of our marriage in in our relationship is we can come to each other and We that person that we go to with like some kind of situation so Ben was streaming too much in the evening and I wanted to hang out with him I in Pre-agreement with each other can go up to him and be like I've not seen you enough We need to figure something out and in that first conversation The other person cannot come back defensive until we figure out what's going on doesn't always work Sure, but we we know going into that conversation that that you just you have to put it out there and then Not like knowing that you're not gonna get attacked or anything right away There might be an argument in a later conversation that gets drawn out For whatever but that initial one that's always been something for us, especially when it comes to Streaming and because it's his job now, but with gaming before I'm sure what led you to changing your schedule is us having a conversation about how like we were trying to find night to hang Out and it just didn't work for a week because when we first started dating we were only seeing each other Maybe two times a week Because we were both busy with school and work and you were raiding and all that kind of stuff So we we settled down that fairly early for most parts of our relationship is is just put it out there kind of thing Yeah, I'm hearing not just put it out there but also that the purse like so the person who puts it out there The person who's receiving it also listens first as opposed to defending attacking You know like like I think that's a really important part that like we try right? Yeah Not trying to put this front then we're perfect. But at least we try And that seems really important, you know, I gotta say Sam I'm a little bit surprised And so I'd love to ask you one or two more questions because like, you know, I I wrapped up college, you know a Year or two after it sounds like Ben started. So I think we're all you know in the same decade in terms of age And so I would still be shocked Like I still remember I went on like one or two dates with this girl And then I told her I was like, hey like Warcraft 3 frozen throne is coming out and I'm gonna be like MIA for two weeks And then you know, I never went out with her again like I Don't know what this is And so she's as far as I could tell is a completely normal woman And and so I'm really surprised because I can't imagine many people like in the mid-2000s Like having a boyfriend who was playing wow for five hours a night five days a week Like I think it's rare for people to be okay with that Is that fair I Mean, it's it wasn't a common thing and and a lot of people look at you know Look at gaming like it's a waste of time and stuff but To be honest, like I was an only child until I was 10 and even then my brother was born with physical mental disabilities So it wasn't like I had a sibling or anything until later on in life with step siblings. So I'm totally fine Spending time by myself I Like I enjoy spending time with people But even then Ben and I have joked about it that if we were like a regular couple where we spent every single night Seven nights a week together. We would probably you know end up getting annoyed with each other after a long a long time So when when he is just like hey, I do this stuff and I was like, oh cool. It's on a schedule Okay. Well, you know, I I ran a Corporate portrait studio around that time You know, I was like I'll just change my schedule to kind of line up with yours if I can and call it a day So I do my thing and you do your thing and then we don't have to worry about trying to figure out when we can Hang out with each other. So Sounds really awesome. Yeah, the funny part though is like I was a super outdoorsy hippie kind of person so We were definitely like I played video games growing up, but we definitely were learning from each other Kind of different. Yeah different hobbies and stuff. So That's awesome And so it sounds like when you were when you were ready to become a full-time streamer like I'm assuming that things sort of gradually Picked up and it was sort of like a stable shift or was it really like kind of rolling the dice? I Would say it was pretty stable a gradual increase until fortnight happened and then everything kind of exploded In a way that kind of nobody Expected. I mean, there's no way you could go into it and be like, oh, yeah one day fortnight's gonna come out and my career is Gonna skyrocket and I'm gonna yeah I met Tyler ninja and we became friends and during pub G before for not even happened and a bunch of people like It was wild it was an unprecedented kind of thing and actually that's where around that time is when she took a larger role on the on the business side of stuff for me because before fortnight Like my business email wasn't really inundated with a lot of stuff and then fortnight happened popularity absolutely skyrocketed and suddenly I was getting like waves of emails and requests to do things and and you know add Opportunities all sorts of stuff and I needed somebody I can't I couldn't sit there and check my email the whole time So I that's where she stepped in the role of being the manager for my job So I don't even really look at my work email too much She does a lot of it and then we also have a management team on the back end that takes care of a lot of the coordination for Contractual stuff all that but I it it was in the span of I would say like six months Where it went from a pretty easily manageable thing for one person and then it exploded and I need to back up real quick And she stepped up to the plate without missing a beat Wow Yeah, it's I don't know if you guys could tell from my you know when I added y'all as friends or when I messaged you And I was like I was a little bit confused. It's because I'm like that and I don't understand what's happening I just I just Like maybe this is the wrong one today Yeah, no, I was like, oh, this is wonderful. Nice to meet you And I was like a little bit concerned and then I was also like, okay, baby And so I'm the same way and it's you know, it's interesting cuz in my case it sort of happened almost slightly in reverse So I was running healthy gamer for about a year and no one had heard of us and then my wife took over and now people Have heard of us. Hooray And and and so it's really interesting to hear like how do you guys kind of manage? I Mean I I don't even know how I would go about answering that question if someone asked it to me any You know, I was just curious. What's what's the experience been like working together? It is there You have to separate Benjamin and Samantha from dr. Lupo and mrs. Dr. Lupo that the relationships almost have to be different relationships because we'll even we'll even Remind the other person when we're about to talk about something for like Streaming or whatever it is like by the way This is between me and my manager not husband and wife right now And that's the we have to set the like the tone for the conversation so otherwise things I think can get kind of muddied if you're There are certain business opportunities like hey, you have a whole crap ton of viewers today you should probably keep streaming for like another half hour or hour past when you would normally end and The wife side would say no, you know, we have a schedule for reason come upstairs But then the manager size like yeah, you don't get this opportunity very very often so it's it is it's a balancing act of what is of You know what which conversation you're having either the business side or the non-business side And sometimes we have to start the conversation or even mid conversation We have to stop and be like who are you talking to right? Yeah Because because I might be coming to a mess Sam and he might be coming to me as dr. Lupo and You can tell real quick in the conversation that we're not talking to the same person. So we have to be like wait this Which had are we both putting on because we both need to be in the same mindset for it Yeah, so I'm noticing that there's there's some pretty clear boundary setting in terms of like, you know What is this a business conversation or a personal conversation? Definitely Yeah, I sometimes joke about this is You know, I think part of the fun is that this is the one situation where potentially sexual harassment between employees is acceptable Good thing HR's never seen stuff we've done to each other. I mean I am HR so So But so and what I I'm gonna just ask a couple more questions. Is that cool? Yeah, so like how did you guys decide to have children or a kid? It sounds like y'all have one correct You want to start? How do we decide I can I can at least set the precedent out of the gate I'm gonna be honest I know that I'm I play video games all day. I'm a manchild, you know, there's only a certain amount of External focus that my brain has the capacity to give out and so I I Initially didn't want to I just I didn't I didn't want kids To start with and then I think things started to change when I was exposed more and more to because she was a photographer So she would work with like babies to take pictures and stuff like that and being shown those things Changed my opinion because it's it's kind of incredible what a little human being can learn to do and now We have Charlie. I'm like it's it's like watching a cloned version of me slowly grow up and and being able to see the See him experiencing things like Mario and and all the games that I loved when I was little when I was hit his age watching someone else See those things and experiencing them for the first time is I mean, it's a pretty typical stereotypical parenting to do But I'm living vicariously through him seeing those things for the first time It's absolutely amazing Wow, I've always wanted to be a parent a mom Like I said before my brother was born with mental physical disabilities when I was 10 and around 12 My mom kind of went MIA for a few years. So I was the mom for about 12 to 14 ish and She You know, she's back. She's great Everything's all good. But I Just always knew after taking care of my brother that I wanted to be a mom even at 12 I was good at it and and my mom did a daycare growing up and then once I got into photography I mean a lot of those kids I was just talking about this a couple days ago My oldest or my longest running client is now 16 and I met her when she was one and so it's just it's Watching all those kids grow up and It's just something that I've always wanted to do and I know I never wanted a big family like one Maybe two if someone really pushed me I I think it's important to explain the some of the other reasoning behind that with your brother yeah, so I am potentially a carrier of my brother's genetic mental disorder and We we don't have no like the exact name that he has because back then the testing was not there and available Now I don't want to just go poke and prod him just so I can figure it out or not so we tried with Charlie and Charlie's a hundred percent good and golden and So we got we got lucky with that And so I never wanted a large family because there's always still that possibility that I can pass on if we have another son but Yeah, do you remember how you told me that you were ready to have kids? No, I don't you really sound like that my head God You and this is this is one way that we used to communicate to each other is is you know What about we weren't living together from obviously a beginning of our relationship? But there was some nights like if something was really on our minds We would just write it all out in an email and send it to the other person and be like, oh, yeah I just sent you an email. So before yeah before I get absolutely ridiculed for this for for eternity Okay, it was one of the it was the way that we we decided was like best for just sometimes it's easier to get your thoughts out if you have time to write them down and stare at them for a little bit and Consider the correct phrasing and then we send it along right it would instead of like a face-to-face conversation sometimes especially about something like that Where even internally I'm like, I don't know what the right thing to do is what the right what the right thing to say is you can muddy the waters real quick if you misspeak and then you have the backpedal and Blah blah, you know, so I so before I get it's people go in on me over this Yeah I wrote an email because it was the right I remember now because it was the easiest way to write out my thoughts and then look At my own thoughts and see if that's like is that what I really mean to say or is there a better way to phrase it? So that it makes sense Is that the way that you actually feel or is that something that you're just kind of feeling like you have to feel? Kind of think too. Yeah, I think thanks for clarifying that because oddly enough That's actually something I recommend to my patients Is that you know a lot of times if we think about the most important communications there are two things that we can never get back one is time that's passed and the second is the words that leave our mouth and And so it's kind of interesting because if you really have something super important, you know when you said wrote you an email I mean I was imagining go one-liner, which is like Okay, let's have kids Okay, thanks. Bye. I mean there were some that were like that But yeah, I was And then So but what I'm hearing is it's it's not really so much an email as it was like a letter Yeah, right just an electronic format. Yeah that it was you thought about it a lot. You expressed a lot I'm still a little bit surprised to be honest Ben Because I can't imagine that looking at pictures of babies And this is probably me just projecting because it's just my experience is like oh it wasn't just looking at pictures It was like it so she did her photography When we got married one of the things that I did is take on a job that I didn't necessarily want to provide enough money So that she could leave her she quit her studio job. So she could start her own business That was one of the things that we did Because she had worked her butt off when I didn't have a job and Trying to get to a stable place and so when when I had the opportunity to give back I did that But she ran her business out of our house and so I got to see in person These little tiny snuggly, you know human loaves of bread is what they basically Boiled down to when they're when they're that young and and that was one of the big things for me that helped That I wouldn't say I mean helped it's everybody's Ultimately the path you take and whether you have kids or not is is gonna be individual for each person, right? My path isn't gonna be different than somebody else's but I definitely was one that was like I don't want to have kids And I started to see the seed babies in person in a way that I hadn't before She's so good with kids man. She working with kids through photography studio and like it's wild Some of the stuff that I have learned from watching her work that it opened up a different side of of an Infant to me that I didn't really expect right because way before up before seeing that my exposure to them was so limited Because I'm the youngest of four in my family So I never there were never any babies around and all I knew is like that. It's just gonna cry a lot It's gonna poop I'm gonna have to clean it up and then and and feed it and then hopefully it's gonna be I'm gonna have to clean it up and then and and feed it and then hopefully it's still not upset about something but then she kind of she changed my opinion on On pretty much all of it as a whole because yeah There's there's that stuff and as a parent you end up with like poop on your fingernails in a way You wouldn't expect right when you change your diapers and all that but but when you actually get to hold It's it if you have kids, you know what I'm talking about It's almost an indescribable thing to see your you know, your your offspring Slowly turn into a human being that can do things. It's crazy Yeah, absolutely. So I'm guessing that Sam Ben you knew that Sam wanted to have kids I knew yeah and Had you guys had you all talked about it before? Was it sort of like because when you said like I I'm ready so you send off the email But like was the assumption that Sam was already ready or wanted to have kids before that so you were sort of like You know, I don't think I ever Yeah, I don't think I ever felt like it was a waiting for me kind of thing I think it was more like a waiting for us to come to a mutual agreement kind of thing so I think she she knew that I Was not interested and I knew that she was interested and it eventually We found we found our way to a mutual agreement and it's just like she forced me or strong-handed me and Like give me your seed it just eventually like I I decided on my own that having a kid was the right idea There were definitely lots of conversations and stuff leading up to that letter being set Yeah, there were there were situations where you just flat-out said that you would never change your mind and And obviously that was something that I had to sit and really think about it That's something that I'm okay with, you know, not being a mom and so it taken a few years I mean what we get pregnant five years after Charlie or after we got married so So we never really rushed into anything with it and I was totally okay being an older parent as well So I had Charlie when I was 30 when all my friends were having them when having their kids like when they were 23 24 And stuff like that and I was totally fine with waiting if that's just what it took so It wasn't just like I knew from day one and then and then I was just like, okay But it was conversations that definitely led up to that letter being sent and then even then we still had plenty of conversations after That letter of like Okay, but now that now that I heard your side and you know my side Let's like push them together and make sure 100% that we're on the same page before we dive into this forever long thing Okay, you want to actually? How about now because this is also very telling about the about where we are now when we have conversations about kids because she so So she made the one for us And did 99.9% of the work and now You're gonna do the second one Well, please if only no, I I have kind of changed gears to where I wouldn't be upset if we had another kid And I would not be upset having another kid either, but it's not coming out of me Yeah, that's that's one of the stipulations, but I definitely never saw myself as someone who was like Yeah, I could I could have a second one And I think that it definitely helps seeing like we went to we went over to my mom's house for Mother's Day This weekend and I saw other family members there and my one of my older brothers has three and their youngest is adorable and She's not a year yet. She's almost one almost one But like they're they're typically pretty timid about interactions and she came And she came and read Ben like climbed up on me and gave me a hug and I about melted into a puddle it was It's just it's such a cool experience that I never thought I would I would be like, yeah, I'm on board. Let's go again I'm ready So, you know Ben and Sam I've been sort of thinking at the big since the beginning of this conversation if there's some way that I can be helpful So when y'all came on today, I was really thinking that What y'all share is not really necessarily for your benefit It's actually for like other people's benefit, you know to share like a lot of interesting things about you know, relationships relationships with streamers relationships with people in gaming, you know, how do you kind of adapt? How do you decide to have kids? How do you raise kids all that good stuff? But I'm wondering but for most people that come on I'm trying to help them with something Right and and I'm just curious about how you guys are doing with your family and your family And I'm wondering how you guys are doing with your family And I'm wondering how you guys are doing with your family And I'm wondering how you guys are doing with your family I'm just curious whether I'm just curious whether There's something that I could be helpful with here in terms of just facilitate sounds like you guys are really solid communicators But you know, is this something that it should I ask y'all questions about this and and maybe we can try to have a conversation about it or Whatever you think is gonna be best. I'm fine. Yeah. Well, I mean, I don't know about about you Benjamin, but you and I have these conversations It's like with you know You're first dating somebody and you're laying in bed at night You're like I wonder what our life in the future would be like and you start thinking about all that kind of stuff And that's kind of like the stage Where I feel like we both are is just like you you know I wonder what a little girl version of us would look like but at the same time I'm like it but it's not again It's not I'm not doing that again. Yeah, I think ultimately it's mostly hyperbole of us Just just yeah, it's just saying it to say it because I mean the way we are right now I don't know if we could fit having another kid into you know the the power trio that we currently have just be given the circumstances and how busy I am and how much she works behind the Scenes for us and taking care of boy all day and that kind of thing. So it's in this situation I think it's more of just like a kind of a joking poking fun at each other Yes, which is the thing that we do a lot It's I think one of my we know how we have we have conversations about love languages I always tell her that one of my my main love language is a sarcasm Because we messed with each other a lot behind the scenes But it's just part of the I think part of the dynamic and this is another one of those things because I know that I know that she doesn't want to grow another child And so I will sometimes if like if we're about to go to bed I'll tease her and put my hand on her stomach and tell her that I can feel the baby kicking and she like that Like we we I poke fun at her a lot. I won't say I'll say me I do it a lot Can I push y'all? Sure, I want to be pushed or you on it. So like I'm wondering whether Ben is doing his equivalent of grabbing your arm on the way out right, so what I'm what I'm noticing is that Ben is respecting your boundary in terms of Sam saying like I'm okay with having another kid theoretically. It's just not coming out of me and And yet Ben is also like I wouldn't mind having another one, right? So we've had this conversation The bat I'm totally a 100% down with adopting And that is something that Benjamin is expressed that he is not a hundred percent sure if that's where he Sits comfortable with yeah So Sam, can I do you mind if I ask a couple of questions about You know your because I So easy to skirt to move into asshole territory here, but so so I Please do good I'm just noticing that I I think you know when when when Ben says something like And I feel sort of comfortable pushing this because you guys clearly do have such a strong marriage You clearly do communicate really well And so it's kind of hard because like you guys do 90% of what I teach. So now Like in terms of what I'm trying to think about like can I help you all in some way? I think it's maybe actually like asking hard questions and bringing things to the surface So Sam, can you help me understand? You know how you came to the decision that you did not want to grow another human being I just did Okay, so when I imagine what I imagined pregnancy before I got pregnant Pregnancy before I got pregnant Burster from Alien and So anytime that anybody's like pregnant and they want me to touch their belly and stuff like that I know it freaks me out. I really did not enjoy a single Like long stretch of pregnancy. There was little sprinkles in there of like cool and everything But deep I don't bedroom if you remember the first time that Charlie moved in my stomach and we sat there and watched it I was like shaking freaking out because it's terrifying Watching something move underneath your skin is terrifying. All of a sudden you're like, oh, there's his elbow So on top of I had a really bad first trimester I Have the whole thing potentially, you know passing on what my brother has in the back of my mind on top of it I just wasn't super comfortable mentally with you know having something growing inside of me And I don't know if that's something that I can get over I also since Charlie was born I've contracted chronic Lyme disease And so I'm already at the point of being as tired as somebody can be without passing out I can't imagine adding in pregnancy tiredness on top of that And I didn't enjoy The birth I didn't enjoy the afterwards there's a reason why there's a chemical in women's brains that make you forget birthing because Nobody would do that a second time if they really thought about it Unless like they had the easiest pregnancies ever kind of thing. So That's where I am What region of the you guys are in the US? Yep. We yeah, we are in Nebraska Interesting you guys get a lot of Lyme disease up there I'm being in Being a photographer you spend a ton of time out in fields dear ticks. Yep So I I specifically remember when I found a tick on me And it wasn't until a few months after that and you know years later all the timing lined up I go to see a doctor and after almost and Six months or so of testing of stuff. She just told me I had leftover part of a flu and A year and a half after that didn't go away and found a new doctor got diagnosed and there we go I'm sorry that you're having to deal with that It's actually one of the most frustrating things to deal with that I've seen medically it is very frustrating But you know, I've always had lots of you know ups and downs in my life that you I'm okay with the negative stuff happening because it always ends up leading me to where I currently am in my life. So Yeah, so so Sam, you know that makes perfect sense in terms of pregnancy is is Statistically the most dangerous thing that the average woman ever does in terms of disability mortality It is it is like literally it's it's the most dangerous part of your life statistically You know and and and so obviously if it you know If it felt awful like I'm kind of with you in terms I mean as much as I can be in terms of you know recognizing that my wife she decided to go through it twice But you know, I think as you guys I'm sure you all understand It's a very individual decision just like having Charlie was like a really individual decision It's not even like couple like even within a couple So there's like individual individuality within a couple and then the the timing of when you decide to have a child and stuff like that I mean, there's so much individuality there the one thing Sam that I'm just a little bit concerned about and This is where you know, you can swat this aside is Sometimes when I'm working with people who have a fear the fear tends to manifest in a very irrefutable way So like for example, like I've worked with people who have had you know one special needs child or like First and then decided to have a second one or people who have had one healthy child and then discovered that there is a Like a genetic risk. It's a really challenging thing. It's kind of bizarre, but You know, I'm just wondering Whether a part of your mind and this is where I feel like I'm going into asshole territory But I'm just gonna be transparent whether a part of your mind because of that fear of what could happen is like pointing to things that Clearly like no one can blame you for Right. So like does that make sense? Yeah. What do you think about that? Um, I know that I'm a person that dwells on fears Benjamin can attest to that that I Don't say that I let fear control my life But there's definitely certain types of fears that I have a hard time, you know facing and letting go of snakes and Because they don't let go of you You're not helping Experiencing kindergarten. Okay, like with a big one So, I don't know I mean if if Ben came to me in in the the same seriousness as writing that letter and said I Would love to have a second child with you and I would love for it to be between just me and you Then it would be okay. Let's sit down. Let's figure out What we can do to make things better for me, you know If we can't ahead of time now that we know now that we know potentially how I react to pregnancy and stuff like that Um, but As far as like having a second child added to our family. I'm 100% on board when we get to that serious point of conversation of sure, let's have a second child, but It again then you're not next to me Benjamin I'm staring at you if you ever came to me and you're just like yes If we have a second child and I want one it I would love for it to be between me and you only then yeah, I'm not gonna be like no, definitely not But in this moment where I feel like we aren't We're more on like the hypothetical. It would be cool Joking kind of situation of having a child then yeah I'm gonna stay in my ground about not wanting to to birth another child. I want to be clear too. I it's not Like with the with the having one that is biologically Boulevards versus adoption. I have no issue with adoption. I think adoption is wonderful I think it's an amazing thing that you you can find people that choose to love someone as their own And versus there are some biological relationships Obviously that are not great that the you have abusive parents and stuff like that. So adoption is like Adoption is one of the most beautiful things I think that we as as human beings have decided to do I just I just it's not like a like a approval or disapproval for me It's more of a I just haven't spent the time to think about if that's the way that I would want to go If we ever got to the point where we want a second kid No, no, I'm not stumped I'm Quite the opposite I'm just how far I want to go So This is probably further than we've had as a conversation on the serious side of things about this ever Sam can you tell me what growing up was like with your younger brother? Sometimes I wish he wasn't there Just because my parents divorced right after he was born Mom bounced is really difficult He was in and out of hospitals for his first five years I do with surgeries and stuff like that. Yeah, and then his mental health or mental disability on top of it But I love him to death I told my parents the first week that he was born that when they can't take care of him that I will and I've Stuck to that and I'm getting all teary-eyed cuz I love my brother so much I've broken up relationships with people that couldn't handle him Ben Charged in headfirst with my brother and And has agreed from day one of meeting him that he will one day be our responsibility Yeah, I mean obviously it's difficult when you're when your siblings ten years apart But then on top of it, you know a parent is gone. You're going through your own change as a preteen and you know Then you have a baby to take care of too Obviously that's right So I'm just gonna go for it so I'm gonna talk now. Okay, I'm gonna use words like imagine so like Here's what I'm thinking if I put myself in your shoes Sam You know, like you said you love your brother a lot and it can be kind of confusing because you can love him and you can also like sort of You can have thoughts that you wish she was never there, right? And and you can see like what he did. I mean unclear whether He's I don't think he split up your parents, but you know, it's it's an additional stress So a lot of times what happens is when the special needs child enters a family It just exposes the weaknesses that are already there, right? It's an additional pressure It sounds like you really stepped up in an amazing way between the ages of 12 and 14 and I would guess that you don't regret that for a second and It sucked And and so, you know, I'm kind of hearing the same thing about pregnancy Is that I'm sure you don't regret it, but it was awful and you would never want to do it again Makes perfect sense, right? Not even having been pregnant I can completely get behind you there and At the same time I wonder if if you know as someone who does sort of have fears kind of like Hang out in the back of your mind I Mean you have to I guess I don't I shouldn't say that but I can't imagine a world in which you haven't had a thought About like what you're signing your son up for if you do have a second biological child What you're signing like whether you're essentially repeating history and like what are you signing Charlie up for and What kind of pressure is it gonna put on you guys and whether that sort of holds you back I Feel like Ben and I are Stronger than my parents or my parents from the age of about six Until I was about 12 Would be separated Back together and you know I feel like my brother was probably kind of that one last ditch effort which obviously very rarely works to save a marriage and So yeah, they lived apart they my dad lived in the basement They were back together and everything was fine and the year later My mom would move out this time and so on and so forth So definitely for sure my brother was the breaking point of them realizing that it just isn't working Yeah And and do you ever think about what it would mean for Charlie if you guys oh my camera just other yeah Do you ever think about what it would mean for Charlie if you guys did have a special needs child? Yeah for sure It It would suck especially because he's younger I mean at 10 I was able to kind of grasp the idea of what my future was gonna be like But Let's say I get pregnant next month And so he'll be six by the time a baby gets here and you will especially with my brother's disability We don't know if we didn't notice it earlier because we were more focused on the physical disability than the mental But we didn't know about my brother's mental disability until he was about a year and a half old Because he was already so delayed with his physical disability We just kind of attributed everything to that until all of a sudden we realized that he's not talking So Yeah, I mean of course I I worry that That it would make Charlie's life harder And it's obviously already hard as an only child to have a sibling come in sometimes at the beginning And I and I just think that Not that my brother has like a bad life at all but if there There's other kids out there that are already here and already have a potentially, you know Not so great life because they're in the adoption system or foster system, whatever. I feel like I could at least Save Kind of thing so yeah, I'm sort of hearing like You know having a biological child comes with particular risks and because Sam I know it sounds kind of weird, but You know, I know pregnancy is sort of very uncomfortable and stuff, but just hearing you Getting to know you a little bit like I find it hard to believe that and this may be me being an asshole like I Think you've demonstrated so much strength so much resilience that I just find myself I don't know why maybe this means I mean or something But like I find myself being a little bit surprised that that's what would hold you back like physical discomfort like hold you back You know, maybe I don't know you that well, but you know Yeah, I mean and especially if we have a girl like we have a girl then we're golden because Women only pass this disorder on to their sons. Very rarely. Do they does it show up in a female? Yeah, but even then like as soon as we found out that we were having a boy Both Ben and I are anxiety like we were excited but our anxiety went up more like oh, okay Well, I mean now what now do we do we need to start doing research? What kind of and we did the extra tests and stuff like that beforehand to make sure things were good But just the anxiety of going up to that appointment of finding out if we were having her a boy or a girl for both Of us if I remember correctly was very high. We were very excited You know super stoked talking about the whole week up but walking in there That was kind of like our moment of do we need to Do we need to potentially change and learn a lot of stuff in this very moment or are we gonna be okay if we have a girl? kind of thing So it sounds like you guys were aware that there was a risk of this when you had your first kid Correct. Yep And and how did you how did you guys manage that? Yeah, lots of anxiety I think is around six months with Charlie that we that it was very obvious that there there was you know, nothing present and Even I remember after Charlie was born There was a couple times that that Ben had pulled me aside and he was just like do you recognize anything in Charlie that that you? remember from your brother just You know every randomly every few months or whatever leading up until we realized that you know, we're we're good to go So a lot of anxiety Yeah That makes a lot of sense You know and and Ben can have I stepped out a line yet? No, I'll yell at you if you do don't I'm not kidding. I'm relying on you to do that Okay This is stuff that she's openly talked about with other people and that we've talked about like so with with her brother One of the things that early in our relationship that I wanted to establish and like We wrote our own vows for our wedding and I included in there that that her brother I keep I'm trying to avoid saying names just to get But I Made sure that she knew that I was gonna be supportive for her brother and provide if if it came time to provide somewhere for him To live I was there ready to go But like we I've done a bunch of charity stuff with my channel and the first two charity streams We ever did were for the National Fragile X Foundation, which is similar fragile X is what her brother has or something similar to it It was just it was such an important thing for me to make sure that she understood because obviously it was like such a main Piece of her life growing up. It was a focus around potentially why her parents split up and and it was one of the most difficult times of her life having to raise her brother and like That's important to her and she's important to me So I wanted to make sure that she knew that I was on board no matter what ended up happening whether we had to do You know take her brother on as part of our life Eventually whether it was earlier or later that I was there ready to go Wow and What you're saying Sam makes a ton of sense. So can I just share what I kind of heard from you? Mm-hmm, and I'm gonna inject a little bit of my own I'm gonna fill in some of the gaps in my mind So let me know if those are like, you know could be completely off. So like I can't imagine I mean you guys didn't really know right like y'all rolled the dice once Yep, and you guys hit the jackpot with Charlie in every way shape or event And I can imagine that like, you know rolling the dice once was bad enough And if you guys like win, right like if I bought GME at 50 cents and it rose to 300 and I decided to sell You know, and I like like and then GME like bobs down again Like I don't even know if I want to get back on that roller coaster, you know, I won once It's clearly enough for me to retire on right like, you know, it sounds like y'all are happy and you guys have an amazing son And there's a part that's like why even bother and then there's also like this sort of like two birds with one stone thing right because there are kids out there who don't have such a good life and You know if you guys decide that you guys have the bandwidth for another kid You can sort of like give a child who doesn't have a promising life Like what sounds to me to be unless you guys are really just super sociopathic and I've missed something completely a Loving home right with like two parents who like really care about their Their child a lot their children a lot two parents who communicate a lot two parents who strive really hard to be good parents And there's already a kid out there who doesn't have that so, you know, why go back, you know Why go back to the gambling table? when You know, there's there's a kid out there who may need your love and already exists How is that for summary I Would say you can hear the vacuum cleaner our cleaning companies I mean for me that that's 100% like especially There's been a few times in taking photos and stuff like that that I've had to call CPS because you know you a Kid isn't smiling and their dad takes him into the bathroom and you can hear him hitting the child like Sorry that flashback I'm having to call the cops on them and making a huge scene but Got the kid out of there There's kids that are already hurting I want to be able to help them But I'm also totally fine being three musketeers too He is a handful sometimes let's not pretend that I think every kid because he's a little clone of me Let's remember that the three musketeers had d'Artagnan, right? Right, right I think he's a little bit of a clown of me. I think he's a little bit of a clown of me I think he's a little bit of a clown of me I think he's a little bit of a clown of me Let's remember that the three musketeers had d'Artagnan, right? True true If there's if there's ever an analogy that says that you guys should adopt it's the three musketeers That reference is basically like there's the three of us and then there's a rando from the outside that we're bringing in It's like that You know younger Different you know, it's also interesting because what I'm hearing from if you really think about like Ben his it seems like a lot of Ben's inspiration to have a child actually came from a child that wasn't his own right? Like I remember still just for myself like being really uninterested in children Like when I was doing pediatrics and stuff and OB-GYN Like those were probably my two least favorite rotations in medical school and like with kids I just didn't you know, I didn't really get him like I was good with kids But I just had no, you know, I didn't think they were particularly cute I thought they were and then like once I had a kid it's like some switch flipped in my brain and And I know personally at least like, you know, my my wife and I routinely talk about like, you know See like an you know, we visited a friend yesterday and they have a young kid and just holding like you guys know the Denseness of a baby. Yeah, how like that, you know, they say the same weight, but they just Stretch out and so like feeling that denseness. It's one of the things that I really like, you know It's just a physical sensation that's associated with a lot of good emotion for me Just like holding like a baby and then we'll do it sometimes and then like we had this brief conversation Not even a conversation. It was like one exchange. It was like do you want to have another one? I was like, nope I'm good. And then she's like, yep me too. I Think going through it twice. I mean there are times where we lose our minds a little bit and we think about it, but I Think we're set. I Think there's a every parent there's certain nights where you crash into bed at the end of the night You like each other you're like why the hell did we decide to do this? Yeah. Yeah Yeah, so it sounds like Hmm yeah, I'm Feels to me like this is tied up a little bit. I don't how do y'all feel about that? I Think that's true. I mean, this is one of those things that we've talked about at least semi regularly over the last multiple years of being together of like What direction do we are we gonna go if we ever go one way or another and it's I especially with how busy we busy We are right now because I never do you can't imagine that this is gonna be your job like I never I Especially because the beginning I got into streaming as like a side thing, right? It was never really intended to be my full-time gig and then suddenly here we are I I think it's something that we've had a pin in just just kind of sitting aside for a while and it doesn't really surprise Me if if this is the way it continues to go for a while, too Plus we don't have to jump into anything like oh, yeah Yeah, we're we tend to be pretty practical when it comes to doing most things in our life I'm not impulsive. I sit in my basement and play video games all day. This is nice, you know, so like hey Let's just have a kid today for fun. It's that's not the kind of that's not the kind of decision-making you're gonna find here Yeah, you don't just randomly change your raid schedule just for any random Thank you, you have to align the 39 other people and shift them two hours into the future now Before anybody goes after that one that was this was like a I need to change what I'm doing just so everybody knows and then People jumped on board with that. It wasn't like you change or go after self kind of thing So I was I tried not to pressure people to do stuff. They don't want to do But I'm sure that you know interacting with the Wow guild quite so intensely actually probably actually helped you in your marriage to be honest Because I find that there's a lot of communication that has to happen. This is a successful Wow guild I think it got me ready to to be a father too because the amount of parenting you feel like you have to do Yeah, absolutely amount of yelling that would come out of that room when you were raiding sometimes You became raid leader because you didn't start out as a raid leader You you eventually came into being like the full guild leader and stuff like that too like the amount of yelling all the memes that came There was a lot of parenting practice. Yeah, he's adopted many an orphan over the One thing that I do want to say Sam just you know, this isn't something we have to get into now but I would actually recommend against it but something that I just sort of like want to mention to you is I've worked with a lot of people with chronic Lyme and You know, we're not entirely sure what chronic Lyme is Do you guys want to explain just for the audience like if you feel comfortable? I mean you guys have already mentioned it, but can you explain to people like what your understanding of what chronic Lyme is? As far as like how it feels and stuff or just what is it? basically it tick bites you and Then you never remember scientific words Basically you become sick with the what's inside the tick You can usually treat it right away with antibiotics and most people are good to go But if it's caught later, it kind of spreads and hides throughout your body and You can either like just blast yourself with antibiotics non-stop and try and see if you can catch it all or you With the doctor that I will go with we are just now kind of treating the symptoms Symptoms are different for everybody which makes it very difficult to diagnose It's also just very difficult to diagnose in the first place for the type of illness that it is And and who knows maybe maybe my doctor diagnosed me incorrectly, too But for me it's a lot of joint and muscle pain And a lot of fatigue Before I got on my medication which kind of helps me a little bit, but I was taking anywhere between Three to five naps a day going between 30 minutes to two hours And the thick of it and now I usually need to take one 30 to 40 minute nap a day if I don't get it, then I just become really cranky But If I if I try to think back to what tired was to me because my first doctor just told me I was tired because I had a kid And if I think back to like The tiredness that I feel right now and it's been four hours since I took my medicine this morning I could go to sleep and sleep for a whole night's worth of rest right now And be 100% okay with that But I can't like I can't you know sleep all day long. So I just push through it the the one thing I would say sam So it's kind of weird but I'd say probably like historically five percent of people in my practice have had chronic Lyme And and I do a lot of work. That's why I'm doing it And and I do a lot of work that's sort of like in complementary and alternative medicine And what i've actually found is that there's some weird immune stuff I don't really know what's going on with chronic Lyme and they have they'll have their Lyme doctors But I have seen a lot of like clinical improvement through So like things like psychotherapy now a lot of people will think that if psychotherapy Helps chronic Lyme. Does that mean that it's all in your head? I really don't think so because like you're saying there there are physical symptoms that are not really Psychological, right? It's like very clearly something physical is going on But we do know for example that meditation improves like immune markers and things like rheumatoid arthritis In lupus other autoimmune or like chronic like immune or infectious states Um, and and so I don't know exactly how this works But just having you know, talk to you for a little bit There's like there's actually a lot of emotion like right under the surface that I think you carry with you Um, you kind of mentioned that, you know fears They don't rent in your mind they buy and they pay mortgages And and so interestingly enough like i've seen some benefit from that and I was just going to say it may be something that you want to like you could think about just in terms of like If I tend to think about the body as like a body in mind as a unit, right? And if you're holding on if your mind is trying to process or holding on to like negative emotion it just doesn't quite have the ram to deal with You know the physical stuff like you can't do both if you think about you know, stress and pregnancy like you just can't You can be stressed out or you can be pregnant You can't be both because that's like all your your body and your mind can handle Yeah, just something to think about that, you know, I've seen a lot of people find some benefit doesn't mean that it's psychological in orange And I really don't think it is but um You know just letting go because I can imagine you also feel like guilty for having some of those thoughts that you had about Your brother in the past because you do love him so much and and like I found that You know their way, you know, you you can let those you can you can evict those fears if you you know Try Um, if you're lucky and if you give it a shot so just something to think about I hope that wasn't out of line. Oh, definitely I definitely felt like a lot of relief Uh, i've done yoga on and off and meditation on and off throughout my life but in the past four years, i've definitely like Really dug into it and sometimes like that's all I need is just like 10 50 minutes to just go If I get overwhelmed because i'm so tired of things. I just need to step away and you know Zen for a minute Yeah, absolutely. Um, so I I noticed that we were supposed to talk about parenting today And I don't think we quite got there. How do y'all feel about that? If this is the way you want it to go then that's I mean that's fine with me I think this is an opportunity for you to ask away if there's anything Related to how where what we do and with charlie and all that. I mean now's the time, right? Uh, sure. I mean how how do y'all feel? I mean this is What i'm i've always been open to talking about Feelings like I've never found it useful to you know Hide feelings or or anything like that. So talking about all all that with pregnancy and everything and babies and Cool, like I think it's definitely something afterwards that ben and I will sit down and kind of probably go over like the the notes version of Of everything together. So Ben, do you do you want to talk about charlie? I could talk about charlie all day Um, yeah, so let's just i'm i'm a little bit curious Maybe we can just kind of get like a short version But like so if you don't mind me, you know, don't share any information that yeah, is it like ballpark of how old he is? Uh, he's five and a half. It's five now. Okay um And so what's it like, you know being a being a streamer running a streaming business and having a kid? He is um The smartest little human being I think i've ever met and that ends up being really really good He he he's reading at like first second grade level already Um, he's working on math stuff. He can articulate himself really well. He speaks clearly uh, he the other side that though is like He is wildly inquisitive about Everything so sometimes so i'm in my my studio right now and sam will bring me Coffee or lunch or whatever because I obviously with streaming you have to be engaged with your chat the entire time or doing something They don't like you just sitting there doing nothing Um, and so he'll come down with her But it's like a 10 minute process of him going through every little shiny because I got a lot of toys in this room It's like this is I don't blame him at all It's like a shiny lights freaking playground that of of all sorts of stuff to look at and mess with that He's never messed with before because just it sits down here But that spreads to so many other aspects of our conversation our engagement with him is like non-stop questioning of everything and I know that's part of like being five and Trying to get a handle of the social back and forth like at that age, obviously he doesn't he doesn't know all social cues He doesn't know You know when is appropriate or not appropriate to talk. He doesn't know about like we're working on raising our hand Uh right now to get to get a question in or like hey mommy. Hey daddy I have something to say but he's he's so he's almost like smart to a to a point of frustration for me because He's a lot like me and that it's like a I want to absorb all the knowledge that I possibly can Even for him that if it's that if it's like to a point of inconvenience for someone else He's like now's the time to answer this question mommy or daddy. Let's let's talk about whatever this thing is That I want to know about Yeah, it's interesting, um, you know, you're you talk about his intelligence is a double-edged sword almost Oh, yeah, I mean almost I I know that I shouldn't look at it like that because I would write I know you absolutely should You think so? Absolutely So I had a supervisor who blew my mind one day So like I think we see this a lot in in, you know the gaming community. She once told me something that She said that a gifted child is actually a special needs child Because if you really think about it, they actually have needs that the average child may not have Right, and when we think about special needs we tend to think about it sort of like in a in a negative capacity in terms Of like inability to do things But I mean i've seen this time and time and time again with like, you know I was sort of this way where like I was smart, you know growing up and I was kind of like a little bit precocious And and like I struggled a lot kind of because of that And and we see this a lot with sort of like these burnt out like gifted kids, right? Like you're gifted And that comes with a whole Pile of stuff like expectations capabilities frustration Some of the worst situations that i've ever seen are when you have a kid who's like very gifted and has a high iq But also has something like bad adhd or bad anxiety And then they can feel like really really stupid, right? They can feel a lot of shame and stuff like that so I I think that you know, it's kind of interesting because I would absolutely you know View almost everything about your kid is a double-edged sword um And that any capability can be like healthy in one circumstance and also like creates its own challenges and needs in another But i'm sure you guys know that yeah, it first came like really stuck in my head that that he is You know, everybody says that their kid is the cutest and the smartest and stuff like that So this is mom bragging right now that it first hit when We were going to the library and he started asking about chapter books at five years old and Now he he doesn't read, you know, like the regular small print chapter books But he has the early reader books of like eight chapters or so and he reads it all in the night And he's just like, all right, where's the next one? And I was like, okay, like I liked reading when I was a kid But not like this He just wants to absorb all the knowledge or watch so many youtube videos about how to fix flat tires because he wants to just know how to fix Flat he's obsessed with flat tires. So he wants to know just in case somebody gets a flat tire He wants to be the one to be able to help people Fix the flat tire. He wants to be a scientist. What's that youtube guy that he was watching? What was that? What's the what's the youtube channel that he was watching chris fix chris fix this dude does like pov, uh, of like Fixing car parts and stuff like that And it's like he could he could watch it for an entire day and know all about this stuff in the inside of a car I'm like he's gonna know more about cars than I do In like you give him a week. He'll have it down pat Yeah I mean, i'm kind of i'm kind of wondering whether he was like watching When he saw his dad come to his mom's rescue when her car wasn't working and when he knows The path of the chad Begins with fixing a flat tire. He just has such lofty goals for being a kid. He wants to be Uh an engineer and a scientist. We just learned about what a roboticist is So now he wants to be a roboticist and he wants to make robots that uh, what was the robot he wants to make? Uh for saint jude because he do a lot of work for saint jude So he's very aware of of what goes on there Um, as he wants to make a robot that if a kid doesn't want to go to their appointment The robot will go pick up the kid and bring him through to their appointment. It's great Yeah my my older kid is somewhere between wanting to be a princess an artist And a doctor The younger kid is trying to decide Whether what kind of demon she wants to be? I want to be her when I grow up Because like when they're playing pretend like one of them is like i'm a princess or a queen the other one's like i'm a monster It's interesting they're very different um Yeah, so and and any any kind of like uh, you know, it sounds like charlie's an amazing kid It sounds like you guys are kind of treating him Um, you know, you're not using a standard playbook I think you guys are kind of developed like writing the playbook as you go. I'm really hearing that from y'all. Is that fair to say? Yeah, I think so and anything, um, you know anything that you would say to You know streamers or people kind of thinking about having kids in terms of like How to make it work? Well Right, because like most streamers I mean like I I know you know ben and I and and we're not going to comment on sam's age because i'm sure she's Very young because she's quite That's ridiculous. I don't believe it um But you know, you know, so i've walked the tightrope as well my friend you know, um, but I think streamers, you know are getting older I think we we work with a fair number of streamers that are you know concerned about like how to find like a healthy relationship? And are thinking about having kids and stuff like that I mean, what would you say to people who are sort of like on the fence or trying to figure out how to do it? um I think that everybody's journey is going to end up being different It's going to be a personal thing that leads them one way or another In fact, if anything, there's a strong parallel between being a parent and being a streamer and that there people can write People can give advice and write all sorts of books about how to do it and how to make it and how to raise your kid And all that but there are so many different one-off scenarios instances of every single person every kid every stream being different like You almost you you can gather so much information and it's still not going to give you the right answer. And so having Have being able to like roll with the punches is probably the most important thing For me that's that looking at it looking back at it now It's like as charlie has developed as a kid and as my career has grown and changed over time It's like what what what works one day might not work the next day and you just got to be okay with that and figure Out what the next thing is going to be to continue to grow in the right way Well said sam anything you want to add to that I would definitely say that there's never a Good time to have a kid like, you know Everyone's just like, you know We're gonna wait until we have this and we do this and we do that and and yada yada yada there you're never gonna find an opportunity where you're like Everything's lined up perfectly. Let's have a child now kind of thing. Uh, and that and also Kind of adding on to ben is that you need to be okay with things constantly changing um, and especially with like Parents that want to stream and they start out kind of just like part-time But they love it and they want to do it so much that they want to go full time that they don't really Kind of think too much of the back end like they think that they're going to make enough money And then they end up struggling and it ends up, you know harming their family because they can't pay their bills or whatever And then the parents mental health is low So then they start getting more frustrated and then they take it out on their kids without really realizing it and stuff and um I think especially with being a parent first and then going into streaming you really need to Not put your dreams aside not saying that because you can do all the things you want to as a parent and stuff, too uh, but Definitely keeping the whole family in mind You gotta have a plan. Yeah When you have a backup plan we had a backup plan I mean ben when ben started and when he jumped from uh working in his corporate job to working in streaming only We had a backup plan that if he went below a certain number within the first six months He was going to get a part-time job somewhere to supplement it when I jumped from My corporate studio job to starting my own business. We made an agreement that I would have a three-year part-time job Uh, just to make sure that I could supplement Uh with everything in the day I hit three years at that part-time job I bounced um, and thankfully for ben it only went up from there for him, but we We made a plan and we put a timeline on it and it's not just uh, if we can't afford food then i'll do this It's like a you know, if you're gonna do this have steps of where you feel like you can be and what is plausible and feasible for your family Yeah, I Beautifully put I mean, I think i'm really hearing you guys sort of say like you know planning for eventualities and planning contingencies like You know, it's fine to chase your dreams, but do so in a practical manner I think too often we kind of think about oh like, you know, like I mean we do a lot of work with parents and kids um, but these are kids that you know, maybe have a video game addiction or I think really the primary problem is communication but And you know the kid will will come to the parent will say like oh You know, I want to go pro And then like they feel like their parent is not supportive and and and sometimes they're not supportive, but I think there's just a very practical, you know, you got to plan for it I know we were the same way so when when I was starting healthy gamer I sort of scaled back on my day job, but I would I would literally work like nights and weekends to like support the family Um, and and you know, that's just sort of like what we had to do because we had to make ends meet Yep, um And and so you kind of got to do what you got to do if it's working part-time on the side for three years and then bouncing and then like I still remember like You know quitting from my nights and weekends job because that was like time away from my family that that was a high price to pay but you know, we felt like It was the right thing to do And it feels good for us is is we always remember that everything is a season like With when ben was working basically full time at his corporate job and full-time streaming on nights and weekends We knew that in order for it to be possible. That's just what it needed to be And it wasn't going to be forever. Yeah, because we were both going to put our heads down and work our asses off to make it work And and then it was and then it got to a point where you know He was able to to just do one thing and then he had more time again. So Awesome Yeah, I I thank you guys so much for kind of sharing some of your perspectives some of your experience Um, you know, I I know i've asked you for permission a thousand times whether I pushed you hard. I'm glad you guys Um, you know feel like I didn't overstep. I I think it was You know, I think it's an important conversation to have it's really fascinating to hear How you guys have gotten to where you are? It sounds like y'all are just maybe not just getting started but in the mid game You know because they all have been together now for 14 years That's still just getting started Please say we're at least halfway through the movie, right? No, I I think I think it's squarely in the mid game Like most people that we interview on stream are like in the early game you guys sound like you're in the mid game Um, you know where it's like y'all are high level now. You've got some decent items You know, you're like you're level 45 or maybe like 55 approaching end game content and you know, that's where you guys are You know, you're not like hanging around in azeroth. It's it's hey don't trash talk azeroth, man I got a lot of good memories there. Okay, i'm only just thinking of gloomhaven now that he's Yeah, if you're looking for a punishing tabletop game, that's a good one Do you guys like board games? Love love them. Yeah, does charlie like board games? Yes Yeah, we have a we have two shelves of kids slash family board games in two shelves of adult board games Any recommendations for five-year-olds? Oh gosh, um Is red light green light red light green light's a gray one. So good. It's so fun and in what's the squirrel one? uh sneaky snacky squirrel Is that one? Um, i'm trying to think charlie loves the ticket to ride juniors. We liked monopoly jr. Uh was a good one as well Um, he loves any of the card games like old maid and crazy eights Uh, man that kid is good at crazy eights. He beats me all the time. Yeah I refuse to play connect four with him because he beats me all the time Last kind of random question. How do y'all feel about arranged marriage contracts? Hello I'm okay with introducing my son to somebody and letting them decide I'm fine. We could have a conversation. I'll get my lawyer involved. That's fine. Fantastic No, it sounds like he's a wonderful kid. Uh, yeah, I I think um You know, there's a I started playing one game that my five and a half year old really likes which is loot You guys heard of this? I don't think I have no so so it's it's I mean, I think charlie will be fine for it So I think it's actually for like eight year olds or ten year olds or whatever But you know if he's playing connect four and stuff, um, it's a cool game And and you know, i'll send you guys like a link or whatever, but it's like you get You know, I think y'all will like it um But yeah, I I think thank you guys very much for coming on from my perspective I I you know, I I feel like we're at a kind of decent stopping point Uh, but I want to give y'all a chance to ask questions if you guys have questions for me or or you know Anything that you feel like we should talk about more Samantha Try to think I don't think I have any other questions I know I I think it's been a long time since either of us had an opportunity to just talk to somebody about Our relationship and being especially being a parent which is crazy to think that he's literally almost six And i've never really had a chance to sit down with somebody and say hey Here's my thoughts on what it's like being a parent So I I guess I appreciate the opportunity to talk about it because it is It is kind of relieving especially like talking about how smart he is and how frustrating it can be and yeah and What it's like being a parent to a kid that's that age that wants to absorb all the knowledge But also seems to just not listen to you sometimes He's very flat out told us that he hears us every time he just chooses not to answer Yeah Such a little shit sometimes when it comes to that but it's but like that's just I think it's part of rolling with those punches And figuring out how to work with that Without ripping all your hair out, you know um You know ben one kind of quick response to that is I I feel like I actually haven't given you the opportunity to really have That conversation in depth for which I apologize because I think we talked a lot more about y'all's relationship And if you know if there's some way that I can be helpful to you down the road um one thing that just as a random aside like one thing that i've come to appreciate is that My kids have a different ayurvedic dosha, which I don't know if you guys have ever heard about this but in traditional indian medicine, they do a lot of like Cognitive finger printing would be the best way that I would put it So, you know each person is different but depending on their like cognitive nature. So for example Uh sam has a tendency to hold on to things Right, like it's neither good nor bad. I mean, it's just she has the capacity to hold on so she holds on to Things that will make her more resilient And she will hold on to negative feelings the same way Um, and so there there are some things that I've really found that are like really have been helpful for raising my kids Once I sort of understand what their cognitive fingerprint is like the your child is intelligent and defiant Right. He's gonna do things his way and and like so how do you like sort of recognizing that There are certain attributes. So like like in in ayurveda. It sounds like he actually is a Vata peta, which means that his primary like cognitive elements are wind and fire So he picks things up quickly Um, he gets kind of focused on them So he's kind of like fire like he'll burn in a straight line if he needs to but then he'll also kind of change direction I'm not getting the sense that he does hold on to things I would also say that like I know this sounds weird because i've never seen your kid before but i'd say that he has Ben's nose Probably doesn't have the roundness of Sam's face Um, he has my cheeks he has these oh he does have okay He has ben's fate. I gave him my eyes and cheeks and that's it Yeah, so there are a lot of interesting things. So it turns out the genetics actually correlate between physical characteristics So if you look at people who have a wind type mind That that if you take a thousand people with wind type minds and a thousand people with fire type minds and you look at their genetic Alleles that the thousand people with wind type minds actually have share common genes and that Fire type minds share common genes as well because it sounds like charlie is a lot like my younger daughter Um in terms of just temperament and how quickly she picks up how quickly he picks up things and stuff like that And so i'm just i'm kind of thinking you know We didn't really get a chance to talk about it too much and i'm not sure exactly what to do about that at this point But maybe you know if you guys have other questions or whatever or you'll ever want to come back on and actually talk about charlie And what it's like You know because I kind of steered things towards y'all as opposed to him. Um, just wanted to toss that out there I think I would be down for something like that. Yeah, because it is one of those Like we we've gone along on this journey kind of just the two of us with the expertise that we have in the back end especially Samantha way more than myself with the experience with kids because of her previous jobs and her experience with her brother uh knows a lot more about What working with kids is like compared to my experience is basically just boy and that's it um but it's It's definitely an experience that I think Has been it's been 99 positive and there's also that that portion that small bit. That's like man I just want to rip my damn hair out sometimes because it's like Like she said, uh, he he openly admits that he hears us and sometimes just ignores and you know that gift of the guy talking to the brick wall I've I feel that Sometimes that's like it's that feels like what it's like Yeah, so so When dealing with vatapit the children So like remember that they're like water The harder you come at them the more they're going to feel like concrete Yep Right, whereas like if you're kind of smooth and i'm sure you guys have figured this out already but like if you're kind of smooth and gentle like He'll listen But he may not respond to commands and then there's a whole thing about boundary setting and you know It sounds like you guys do a pretty good job of that. But anyway It sounds like he's a wonderful kid, but I I do think that you know, he's going to be challenging If he's not already Yep But he's starting to show that head on. Yeah it's Yeah Anyway, so thank you guys for coming on Let me just think a little bit about maybe like how to follow up with you all about you know, potentially, you know Follow up whether it's on stream or whatever or maybe I can just recommend a book if you guys are curious or something Because I think especially about the vatapit the children or like they're they're challenging Right because he's flighty like he doesn't always pay attention and sometimes when he does he chooses not to listen So part of it is attentional And then a part of it is defiance. It's just he's just going to do what he wants when he wants to and And it's challenging because he's like, you know when he when he points in the right direction It's amazing when you guys are all on the same page It's great right True so Thank you all so much for coming on Uh anything that we can do to help you before we kind of wrap up for today? You could benjamin I think i'm good, baby All right. Well, um, do you guys want to learn to meditate? I mean it sounds like uh sam has some experience sometimes we'll teach people at the end of stream if they're interested in learning I It's up to you benjamin since I I after this is done. I'm going back to apex for a couple more hours So I think meditation and a fast-paced br don't necessarily line up yet but I mean something like that, especially for me we didn't get a whole lot into to Into my side of things we talked about a lot about samantha, which is totally fine Her story is honestly way more elaborate, uh, and and Interesting than mine my my life as a kid growing up was was so vanilla. It would make your head spin. Um Yes, I think it's something that in the future i'll be down to talk about sure, of course Um, well good luck with apex Thank you. And uh, yeah, thank you guys so much for coming on. You know, I really appreciate you all sharing this part of your life um, you know, I i've heard Ben, you know I know you I get the impression at least from what I hear on twitter and whatnot That you do a pretty good job about setting a boundary around your personal life and your streamer life, right? Like there's ben and there's dr. Lupo I try to yeah So i'm I I particularly appreciate that you're willing to kind of cross that boundary for our sake and to try to educate people Um, so far we really haven't had a single case of knock on wood Having bad fallout from coming on stream, but if something like that does happen, you know, please let us know Cool, um And good luck to you guys and and I hope you school some noobs Thanks. Okay. I appreciate it man sam. Enjoy your nap Yes I will get a little one before I head right back into work Okay sounds terrible Have a nice day Bye appreciate it Oh my god, so much work chat Well, we hope that you know, he wrecks some noobs