 You can love your child with addiction. You can't get them to quit. You can love your mother. You can support your mother. You can't keep her from losing it. You do not control that. It's fucking arrogant to think that. The depth of human arrogance is to think that you can control another human being, let alone your own life. What is the biggest challenge in your life? Okay, so there's a question who has there's someone who has a question about the holiday season. So the holiday season is here. It's extremely stressful. My family doesn't do a traditional Christmas celebration. This puts me at odds with all of my extended family. I'm looking for a way to sort of bridge the gap and make any gathering at the very least tolerable. What are some steps to take or a good way to show family members that we respect their traditions, but we don't wish to follow them? So I think that's a great question. I think that's the kind of thing that I can't sort of answer open-ended. So I think if this person wants to come on stream, we can talk about how to manage the holidays and the difficulties of managing the holidays. So the holidays are a really tough time for a lot of my patients. Because like shit just gets stirred up. Like trauma and like expectations and disappointment and shame and all that kind of stuff is front and center. So I think that's a great thing to come on the stream and talk about if the person who posted that question is willing to talk. Okay, so I have another there's another question here, which I think is really good, but is also kind of off topic and something that I can't answer. Yeah, so many good questions. Okay, we still have to teach you guys how to meditate today, right? Don't get hammered through the holidays. Not really a good recommendation. Okay, let me ask you guys. Do you guys want sort of like I'll ask you, do you want to ask you want me to? Okay, so here's the next question. So you guys tell me, do you want me to answer this question? Or do you guys want me to move on to something else? Because that's also pretty in depth question. Okay. I'm a bit in over my head. I have a younger sister who was born with cerebral palsy. She's in her mid 20s now in 2015. She was diagnosed with a rare blood cancer. She's had two bone marrow transplants. The treatments she's getting don't seem to be working. I've always prepared for the eventuality that once my parents passed on, she would come live with me. I don't think this will be the case. I don't know how to be supportive for my mother who is handling the daily doctors and treatments. I don't know how to prepare myself for her potential passing and what I would need to do for my mother to keep her from well just losing it. She shrugs my suggestions for counseling for her with I've survived this long without it. Okay, this is a good question. So this question highlights a lot of principles that it is very important that you live your life by. That's why I love this question. There's a lot here. Okay. The first question, which I'm going to dodge for today, even though this is about spirituality, is how do we understand why some people are born with cerebral palsy and like get rare blood cancers? Like how the fuck does that work? How do we live a life in which terrible things happen to people that we love? That is a very important question, one that definitely needs to be discussed, but is worthy of an entire stream. So we'll talk about that one day. I've always prepared for the eventuality that once my parents passed on, she would come live with me. So now we get to the first problem that the mind creates, which is expectations. So the first question is, where did you get the idea? And how attached are you to this idea that this person is going to come live with you? Right. So we tend to have a moral compass, which tells us that we should do certain things. But oftentimes that moral compass gets clouded by emotion. So there's just sort of this idea that when parents pass, this person is going to come live with me because I'm family and I'm the only one that can take care of her. So I'd start by really stopping and really examining that statement. So it can feel like an asshole to say that my sister with cerebral palsy is not going to come live with me. You can feel like you're letting her down. But for someone who has cerebral palsy, I genuinely question whether this person is going to get the best care that they can if they come live with you. Because a lot of people, their homes are not really designed to live and support someone with special needs the best that they can. Right. We have to really think about that. Like, just because you feel guilty for having not having her come live with you, if you feel like you're abandoning her, if this person comes and lives with you, doesn't actually mean that you are the best person to take care of her. This is the first thing to understand. What you should think about is what is in the best interests of your sister. And to recognize that it is possible that your guilt is making you automatically assume that the best thing for your sister is to come and live with you. And then you feel guilty because you're like, oh my God, like, if this person comes and lives with me, that's going to be such a shit show. I have to do this. I have to do this. I have to do this. I don't know if I'm going to be able to handle it, but I have to. So first thing I ask you is really do you have to is that really the best thing for your sister? One of the most difficult things to realize is that you are not the best person to help out people that you love. One of the most important things. And I understand this because I work with people with fucking addictions. And it takes so much time for me to get through to parents and tell them that love is not enough. You can love your child as much as you want to. That doesn't mean that you can help them. Blows their fucking mind. The parents who end up OK are the ones that realize that love is not enough. That in our life, circumstances are important. Resources are important. Choices are important. The choices of the ones that you love are important. Parents can bend over backwards to try to love a child with addiction as much as they want to. Doesn't mean it's going to fix the child. That the child or the person with addiction has to take responsibility for their actions. Has to take responsibility for their life. Has to take responsibility for their treatment. Love isn't enough. You can't love someone in your family to wellness. I'm sorry. You just can't. I know I try. I try when my kid gets sick. I try to bend over backwards to give them every single comfort they can. Sometimes that's actually bad for them. Because if I stay up all night patting them and I'm a zombie the next day, and I'm short tempered and I don't make them like food and the food burns and it's not delicious, taking care of yourself is sometimes really important because then you can better take care of other people. There's a lot of research on physician burnout. You know how good, what the quality of medicine that a physician who's burnt out practices? They practice bad medicine. They make mistakes. They're not compassionate if they burn themselves out. Take care of yourself first. Then you can take care of other people. Simplest analogy that I tell people is that if you're trying to save someone from drowning, it's really easy if you're standing in the shallow end. Like if there's a three-year-old who's like struggling for breath and you're in the three-foot pool and you just stand up and you hold them, they're not going to drown. They're never going to drown. You can just hold them. It's easy. No effort. If you're in the deep end, then it's tough. Take care of yourself first. Establish a solid foundation first. Right? Why can I help you guys? Because I take care of my shit at home. It gives me strength. I'm calm. Thankfully, I have a wonderful wife who's taking care of my children right now so that I can be here on a Sunday. But my shit is taken care of at home. She helps me. She supports me. I'm supported. I have my feet on the ground. If I have my feet on the ground, I can help you. The first thing is where did you get that expectation? And understand that a lot of our suffering comes from the expectations which we automatically make for ourselves. And that those expectations and standards that we set up for ourselves are based on our emotions in the moment. Guilt. Guilt doesn't make you think right. Shame doesn't make you think right. Fear doesn't make you think right. Everyone knows this. Yet we do not question the conclusions that come out of these emotions. So the first is question that conclusion. The first is, is your sister actually better off with you? I don't know how to be supportive for my mother who is handling the daily doctors and treatments. I don't. Okay. So the next important question, point to understand is just because you don't see the effect of your support and love doesn't mean it doesn't have an effect. Right. And so this person goes on to say, I don't know how to prepare myself for her potential passing and what I would need to do for my mother to keep her from, well, just losing it. She shrugs off my suggestions for counseling with I've survived this long without it. So this person thinks I'm making a suggestion. The suggestion is being rejected. Therefore, I'm not able to help my mother. Do you guys see that logical chain? Makes sense. Right. What does a psychiatrist do? What does a therapist do? Do we make suggestions? No. Good ones usually don't. I make a fair amount of suggestions. But a lot of times we don't make suggestions. What do we do? How do we help people? Right. When someone comes in and says, I'm depressed because I don't feel good about myself. If I tell them, hey, you should just go to the gym, change your diet, get yourself a stool transplant from an undepressed rat, and you'll be good. Doesn't work. Right. Doesn't work. What do we do? What is this person doing? So this person is so remember that in order to help someone, they don't necessarily need to take your help. I think one of the most important things that you can offer another human being is the knowledge that you care about them, that you love them, and that you support them. They just have to know that. They don't even have to take your help. So one of the most important things that I think people underestimate is like you don't think you're helping someone because they don't seem to be changing, but you don't realize how much of an effect it has on that person. I don't know if you guys have read like manifestos of school shooters, but those people are like utterly alone. Utterly alone. They have no one. Right. And so when you offer when you demonstrate concern for someone you love and you say, hey, maybe you should get counseling, you don't realize that that person feels less alone because you're caring about them. You're demonstrating you're caring. And so the other interesting thing is the mother hasn't lost it yet. Right. Think about this for a second. This is a mother who has a child who has cerebral palsy, multiple blood cancers where treatments aren't working. Their life is fucking is hard, as hard as you can possibly imagine, and then harder. And the mother hasn't lost it yet. Why? Why? I think it's because this person is helping because they're saying, hey, I see you. I see that you're struggling and I want to help. How can I help? Right. That's what they're doing. That's the signal. Even if they're turning down the help, it's just enough to know that you're not utterly alone. And I don't know if you guys have ever been suicidal. I imagine there are a fair number of people in chat who have been suicidal. But like when you're suicidal, you just feel really, really alone. Right. And if there's one person who can make you feel not alone, that helps so much. And so I think this person is doing a better job of taking care of their mother than they realize. Right. Now, practically, you can ask. So I would say that like practically you're doing a better job than you think. And also, I would consider using this phrasing, which is, I know that this is like dealing with my sister is really hard and that you must be going through a lot. How can I best support you? Instead of suggesting something, ask them. Ask an open-ended question of how you can help. So a lot of times when you try to help someone, you give them suggestions. You say, hey, man, I think you have a drinking problem. You need to go to fucking rehab. And they say, no, fuck you. Right. Say, hey, man, you should go to AA. You have a fucking drinking problem. And they say, no, hey, man, you're overweight. You should get your ass to the gym and stop eating Cheetos. And they say, no. So try this. Hey, I see you're really struggling right now. This is stressful for me, and I'm not even the primary caretaker of my sister. What can I do to support you? How can I help? How are you handling it? And let them run the show. Instead of just making suggestions, see what they need. Then ask them questions. Instead of suggesting counseling, have you thought about getting counseling? And then if they say, I've survived this long without it, have you ever been in counseling? What do you think counseling is about? Do you think it could be helpful? What does counseling do for people? Right. You can ask these kinds of questions. Start exploring things with them. See how they feel. Ask them how they need support. And now the last part, which is possibly the hardest. I don't know how to prepare myself for her potential passing and what I would need to do for my mother to keep her from well just losing it. OK. Now we come to the biggest source of suffering in the world. Biggest source of suffering in the world. Which is your fucking arrogance that you can control things for another human being. That you can actually control your life. That you can control outcomes. When I apply for a job, and I really want that job, there's a part of me that says that if I work hard enough, I can get that job. Incorrect. You do not control whether you get the job. You just don't control it. You can work as hard as you fucking want to. I'm not saying you shouldn't work hard. What I'm saying is be careful about the expectation you create in your mind about the result. You can love your child with addiction. You can't get them to quit. You can love your mother. You can support your mother. You can't keep her from losing it. You do not control that. It's fucking arrogant to think that. The depth of human arrogance is to think that you can control another human being, let alone your own life. As a human being, you're entitled to your actions, not the fruits of your actions. I'm entitled to ask a girl out. I'm not entitled to her saying yes. I'm entitled to apply for a job. I'm not entitled to get it. I'm entitled to my actions. The more you recognize that, the more your life will fucking turn around. Because people get so caught up in the outcomes of their actions. When that girl says no, I get devastated. I get fucking depressed. I feel ashamed. I don't leave the house. Why? Because you felt like you were in control. If I was different, she would have said yes. If I was more studly, she would have said yes. If I was a fucking Chad, she would have said yes. Right? If I was dot dot dot dot dot, she would have said yes. I'm not good enough because she did not say yes. That's the fucking problem. Devote yourself to your actions. You don't control whether she says yes. You don't control whether your mother takes your help. You don't control whether your mother loses it. You don't control whether your loved one gets recovery from addiction or not. You do not control that. All you control is what you do. You get to control showing up. That's all you get. You get to show up. Today, I showed up. Today, you guys showed up. That's what you control. Joro, this morning, showed up. Right? He doesn't control whether he finds a job. He controls whether he takes a fucking walk. Buleus, a couple of weeks ago, controls whether he cleans his room. That's all he controls. He doesn't control the number of people who log on to his Twitch. He doesn't control anything. All you control is your actions. The problem is that people get so caught up in the consequences of their actions, they get so pissed off and disappointed and ashamed that the world didn't turn out the way they wanted. They don't even fucking understand. You don't have control over that. You don't get to do that. You don't get to decide whether you were born with cerebral palsy. You don't get to decide whether you were born with lupus. You don't get to decide any of that. You have so little control in life. And the more that you understand that, the better your life will go. Because then you focus on the action, right? You stop worrying about the result. You focus on the action. I didn't apply for a job. Oh, that means I'm not good enough. Fuck it. I'm ashamed. I'm not good enough. What's the point in applying? That's what happens when you focus on the result. You don't focus on the result. I was never entitled a job to begin with. I applied. I didn't get it. What am I going to do today? I'm going to apply for another fucking job. That's how you change your life. So for this person, I don't know how to prepare myself for her potential passing and what I would need to do for my mother. Okay, so this is important. I don't know how to prepare myself for her potential passing. That is what you control. It's to prepare yourself for the eventuality. That's what you control. And what I would need to do for my mother to keep her from well just losing it. You cannot do that. You cannot do that. You can't do that at all. Whether your mother loses it or doesn't lose it. Not your choice. How you prepare for the passing, that is your choice. And so if you feel like you're not moving forward in life, if you're stuck, if you feel like a piece of shit, I don't think you understand. You don't control. You're so fucking arrogant. You don't control nearly as much as you want. You just control yourself. That's all you are. All you have agency over, right? If you're playing a game, you don't control the NPCs. Stupid. We don't assume that. You don't get to control the NPC. You don't get to control what's inside the loot box. You control the PC, right? You control your character. When you play Dota or an MMO, you just control your guy. Right? So how do you climb MMR in team games? You climb MMR like if you're playing Overwatch or LoL or whatever. How do you climb MMR? Does raging get your teammates? Does raging get your teammates? Give you MMR? No, but everyone loves to do it, right? You love to rage at your teammates. Does it make you better at the game? Fucking no. You want to get better? Think about what you did wrong. Think about yourself. Think about what you control. You don't control them. You control yourself. You can influence them, right? You can be a toxic motherfucker in game. You can be as toxic as you want to. That'll influence them. But whether you respond to toxicity with toxicity, that's yours to control. Whether you get better at the game, whether you climb MMR, depends on your actions. That's all you get. You can play the best game of Overwatch or Dota or LoL or whatever you play. PvP and an MMO. And you don't actually get to decide whether you win or lose. Because when you queue up, you're with four to five randos, right? And depending on the randos on your team and the randos on their team, you're just 10% of the game. That's all you are. And that's how it is with life, too. And you focus on that 10%, your life will start moving in the right direction.