 We think about negative emotions as bad things because they're so powerful, right? Fear and anxiety are so crippling. But what we don't realize is we frequently will manipulate ourselves into harnessing negative emotions for our benefit. Hello. Hello. So tell me a little bit about what burns you out, my friend. Okay, so I'm gonna start with myself. So I am Nitin. You can call me Nitin. Okay. I'm Indian. Okay. I did high school in India, undergrad in US with a bunch of other stuff in between. Okay. And I'm 23. Okay. And so what burns me out, so what burns me out is like, when I want to work, when I've given a task or something that involves like long-term effort to be put in, like over a week is what I consider long-term, I am able to do it if it has a deadline and consequences attached to it, like a homework assignment, for example. But if it's something that is either like something, some sort of project that I want to work on or that I try to work on for my career, I get burnt out after a few days of work without any external validation on progress that I've made. And the key part is that the progress has to be tangible and I need to be able to notice that progress as well. But the problem is like, if I'm doing a task and I'm able to notice the tangible progress, but without the external validation, I still get burnt out and I'm unable to, I get paralyzed and I'm not able to do any of those tasks following that, if that was clear. Yeah. So let me see if I understood it and then you tell me if it was clear. So it sounds like you're able to actually do good work first of all, if there's a deadline or some kind of external pressure. So in terms of college and schoolwork, like you can actually work pretty effectively. Is that fair? I wouldn't say effectively because I every almost every, not almost, every deadline I procrastinated to like the last day, hour or whatever time it requires and some I did it like at 11.59. Okay. So, but do you- I'm able to finish. You're able to finish, but in a procrastinating kind of way. And what you're really struggling with is that there are some things, let's say for your personal growth that don't have a deadline, right? There is no 11.59 PM because you're just doing it for you and you struggle to do those things. Yep. The exceptions to when you struggle to do them have to do with two things. The first is that if there is a deadline, if there's tangible progress and even if there's tangible progress, you need external validation to continue doing stuff for yourself. Yep. Okay. I assume this is frustrating for you. Yeah, it's very frustrating. Tell me a little bit about that. So, is it fine if I start with a few examples? Sure. I think that'll- Okay. So, one of the things that I've tried to do on multiple occasions, like, so I'm 23 right now. So, since I was like 16, 15-ish, I've tried like on multiple occasions to learn the keyboard. No classes or whatsoever just by myself. I've watched like probably more than a hundred, 200 YouTube videos on learning the keyboard, basics, music theory, whatnot. And I found that like, when I first tried it, I was able to stick to it for like a month and then I stopped. And then a few weeks later, I tried again. But then this time I'd be able to do it only for like a few weeks. And then I tried again after a few weeks or a month. And then I just do it for even lesser until the point I just do it for a day. Then I stopped for like a long time. But in like 2020, I came back to it like after a few years and I was able to stick to it for a month again. But then the same pattern repeated itself and until I just not play the keyboard. But the thing is, like every time I am actively interested in doing keyboard, I do all the YouTubing research, all that. But when it comes to actually practicing or doing anything related to it, I just end up freezing like after that certain period of time I've done it in the recent past. And one positive thing like in the question, it was like what I've done to like what I've done to deal with it. So I've only succeeded like in one aspect and that was recently, I still not sure where it's going. But in like, so I finished undergrad in the US and now I'm back in India doing like a bootcamp and like data science. It started a month and a half ago. So all new people in a classroom, nine to five, Monday to Thursday setting. And I started going to the gym right after my classes. And it's been a month and a half and I've still consistently going to the gym. And I think the most important part that's keeping me going to the gym is the fact that when I, after I met a few people in class, I told them that I'm going to the gym after class. And then every few days I would, like when I was leaving class, I tell them I'm going to the gym. Like to get the like external like confirmation that they know that I'm going to the gym and that I know I'm going to the gym. And then which ends up making me go to the gym. The past week, however, oh, sorry, you can go. Nope, keep going. The past week, however, like there was group projects and we only had to come in for a few hours. Like, so this week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I only had to come in a few hours on Monday and Tuesday. So before this, there was Dasara holidays. For those who don't know, it's like a week off for like vacation in India. So there was classes during that time. And when I came back, it was straight into the school projects. So I just left by myself, came by myself and there was no like interaction with anybody else. And I physically walked by the gym every day. So I walk, I stop at the gym, I'm paralyzed to go to the gym and I just ended up going home. Like it happened for three days. And then Thursday, which is yesterday, for me right now, probably. Yeah. So I went out with my friends and then after meeting them, I told them I'm going to the gym now and then said bye. Then I walked past the gym again and I actually went to the gym. Okay. Okay. So Nitin, so I think you're doing okay. I can understand how this is frustrating because what I'm hearing is that as long as someone else knows you're doing something, as long as you almost like make a promise to that person, then you'll live up to it. Does that make sense? Yeah. Like it's not really a, a promise may not be the right word, but once you tell them you're going to the gym, then it's almost like you've made a commitment and you don't want to let that commitment down and you don't want to disappoint them by lying and not going to the gym. Cause what if they found out that you didn't go to the gym, then how would you feel? Mm-hmm. So the first thing, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So the first thing to, yeah, go ahead. Oh, so I just wanted to say like, I feel that like in currently, but in the past, like I had the same similar thing to with, what was it? Oh, similar to the thing to the gym, but there wasn't actually like, it was on Discord. It was my high school friends. I was in college in US and I like post all my workouts on Discord and I'd say I'm going to work out. But then after like a few months, I like say I'm going to work out, but then I don't work out. And then it just died from there. So I don't know how far this is going to go, so there's- So we're going to talk about sort of like a short-term and long-term approach to this, okay? The first is, how do you understand this? Like, what do you think is going on inside you that this is like, why do you think you function this way? Do you have any sense of that? Um, I'm dumb, but like from what I can tell, so from what I can tell, I feel like I burn out or like have all these problems when I don't have enough stimulus. Like, I don't know how to put it. Like, if I don't have time to myself to think, then I'm fine. But then if I have time for myself to think, then I'm not fine. And whenever it's a long-term task, like in the first part of that task, you're totally into the task and you don't have, and you're not like active, I mean, you're not like, you're actively on the task and you don't have like thinking time for yourself. I know what you mean. That's brilliant. So focused on it. Like you have time for yourself. Let me, let me, let me, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna interrupt you on purpose because I don't wanna move past this point. So this is brilliant. So when you say stimulus, I'm gonna try to reframe that a little bit. So if you are so not really stressed, but as long as your mind doesn't get a chance to start making excuses and make you lazy, you're fine. Hey chat, subscribing to our YouTube channel allows us to help more people with their mental health. Thanks to your support so far, we've already reached thousands of people from across the globe. So help us out and hit subscribe. Wait, they have to hit subscribe and click a bell now? Does that resonate with you? Like, cause like, as long as there's like other stimulus, like, but if you're left to your own devices, your mind is gonna start to say, well, why? Like, why bother? You're gonna start walking past the gym. Like, you know, if a friend was next to you and y'all were walking past the gym and you had told them, hey, I'm gonna go to the gym and y'all were walking past it together, you would say bye and then go into the gym. Cause you didn't have time by yourself. But if the 10 minute walk to the gym, you're in your own head, then your mind starts doing stuff and sabotages your effort. Your motivation starts to decrease all this kind of stuff, right? Yeah, now that you've said that, like it kind of rings true for almost everything. Yep, so we're gonna get into that. So we can't give your mind time to think, right? We can't give your mind a chance to procrastinate and start to make excuses. So in this situation, is your mind your friend or your enemy? Enemies? Absolutely. So what are the things that you use to defeat your enemy that is the mind? You create an external accountability with other people. Because if you tell people, hey, I'm gonna go to the gym, then if you don't go to the gym, you're gonna feel guilty, ashamed, disappointed, right? Does your mind like to feel guilty, shamed or disappointed? No. Have you been made or have you felt that way in the past? I have. Tell me about that. So like I was saying, like the gym part, like when I was like two, few years ago, when I was working on myself, I'd gone to the gym for a month and then I'd say I'm going to the gym for a month and then I'd say I'm going to the gym, but then I wouldn't go to the gym. And then I feel guilty for that. And then I go back to the gym for a few days. And then after a point in time in that time, I felt like I felt guilty too many times and I just got desensitized to that and I just stopped doing it. So I don't know how far this guilt takes me in the- Let's go earlier than the gym. Nathan, you're Indian, right? Yeah. Do you have any like, like have you been made to feel guilty or did you feel guilty even before a couple of years ago? Like, can you remember the first time? You know, like when you feel disappointed in yourself, when you don't go to the gym and you tell yourself you're gonna go? Yep. Like I'll tell you kind of what I mean. So you know you can go to the gym if you don't tell someone. I mean, sorry, you know you can go to the gym if you tell someone, if you tell your friend, hey, I'm gonna go to the gym today. You know that you're gonna go. You can have confidence in yourself. But then there's a small part of you that's like, I wish I wasn't this way. Why do I have to rely on telling someone else that I'm gonna go to the gym to like go to the gym? And there's like a tiny little part of you that feels like almost ashamed or disappointed with yourself that you have to go through this to go to the gym. You just can't go to the gym for yourself. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Do you remember like that feeling? Do you remember if you felt that five years ago, seven years ago, 10 years ago? Do you remember a time where you really started to feel like kind of like really disappointed in yourself or people made you feel really disappointed in yourself? So I feel like until like the 10th grade, which is like I think sophomore year, high school for all you guys in America, I was like, I didn't have time to think. Like I just didn't have time to think. Like I was having fun in school. I was having fun once I met home. And I just don't remember having the time to think. Like in like the last two years, 11th and 12th, there was a situation where we were in a robotics competition. And the first year went fine. The second year, like all my friends decided to form a robotics team without me. And then that was very, I felt like I did something wrong. And I was like, it was definitely my fault. And I felt like really guilty for like whatever they, why did I feel guilty like for them? I don't know how to say it. Like I felt guilty for like the fact that whatever I did to make them not put me in the team, but then that ended up fine. But then that ended up fine afterwards. Yeah, that was the first thing I can remember. Okay. Yeah, so that feels important to me, but it feels a little bit off base. So I would encourage you to continue thinking about that. But let me ask you one other question. Why do you wanna learn piano or keyboard? So I really wanna be able to be good at the piano. Why? I just wanna like. Why? Who? How would you be? I feel like I don't have any. Go ahead. Cause I feel like I don't have any skills. Okay. And what does it feel like to not have any skills? Feels awful. Who are you until you learn the keyboard? Let me ask you actually a different question. Who will you be? Tell me about the person you'll be when you start exercising every day and you learn the keyboard. Tell me about that person. That person would be either equal to or better than all my peers. Tell me about that person. That person, like I don't understand the question. Like you, I think, okay, I understand you don't understand the question. I suspect you have an answer though. So let me ask it, try to ask it in a different way. Maybe it's a dumb, not dumb, but bad question. I think that your mind thinks about and imagines what it is like once you start exercising regularly. And like you have a vision of yourself, right? And you think to yourself like, oh, like it's gonna be so awesome when I'm a badass at the piano and I'm ripped. It definitely thinks that. Tell me about like when you think about that person you could be, how do you feel about yourself? So if I'm actively learning the piano and going to the gym, then I feel great. If I'm not actively going to the gym. I'm not talking about when you're going. I'm talking about, you've thought about what it's like if you, every week for the next three years, if you go to the gym and you play piano, the way that you want to. Tell me about that person. That person would be confident, would be ripped, hopefully. Yep. And then would have the confidence to say, I am doing this, I am doing that. Absolutely. Nitin, are you smiling right now? Yes. Yeah, can y'all hear him smiling? What are you feeling when I ask you that? Embarrassment. Okay. And like joy. Yeah. Right? Yeah. And so embarrassment because we're like not letting you hide but joy because like that's what you want to be. You want to be joyful. You want to be amazing. You want to have skills. And what does it feel like to not be that person? Hard question. It feels like it feels like I don't fit anywhere. Like I'm not worthy of fitting anywhere. Yeah, right? And so you'd fit better if you could do more stuff. Right? Like people would respect you if you could play the piano. People would respect you if you were in shape. I don't know what your sexuality is or what your romantic status is, but maybe people that you're attracted to would give you attention. Your friends would be impressed. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like you could hold your head up high. Like you could be confident in who you are instead of being who you are right now. Yeah. Make sense? Mm-hmm. So let's try to understand what's going on here, okay? I'm gonna do my best to share some thoughts. You let me know if it kind of works for you or not. So the first thing is that the mind is the enemy. We've figured that out, right? Because when left to its own devices, the mind will prevent you from doing your goals. And we'll get to why that is in a second, right? So remember, if you're left to your own devices, if you're given time to think, then you're not gonna go to the gym. You'll stop playing piano. But in order for you to achieve your goals, and let's like dig into that, in order for you to achieve your goals, you can't give yourself time to think. And furthermore, guilt is a very strong motivator for you. So here's what I think is going on with you. You don't like who you are. And you've decided that you're gonna change. And you can't continue being who you are. You need to be, you can't be Nitin. You need to be ripped piano playing Nitin. Can't be this Nitin. It's not good enough. Can't be the, hey, I didn't get invited to the robotics team Nitin. We're done being that loser. We're gonna be Chad Nitin, right? Yep. So the other thing is you want this thing because you're tired of being who you are. And so you're a smart guy. So you figured out the best way that you can to become something else, which is that your mind is gonna get in the way, right? Because you have Nitin, loser Nitin's mind can't motivate itself. Loser Nitin's mind is your enemy. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna trick it. We're gonna out maneuver it. We're gonna defeat it. And what works really well? Guilt. So you create situations for yourself where you've realized, I hate feeling guilty. In your robotics class, when you didn't get picked, you felt so guilty, you're like, never again. Nitin, did you tell yourself never again? Yeah. Absolutely. So now you've got a gift. You have a key. You have an answer. Never again. So how can you create situations where the idea of never again will motivate you? You create artificial guilt. You tell people, hey, I'm gonna go to the gym. You create a stimulus for yourself. And you never wanna feel that guilt again. So as long as that guilt is like possible, then you'll avoid it at all costs. That's the way that you manipulate your mind. Do you see that? So you're using guilt as a tool to get your mind to do what it needs to do. Right? It's like your mind is like a horse and the guilt is the whip. And you're telling it, you better move. And the thing is, every time you tell someone, I'm gonna go to the gym, that's you picking up the whip. You're creating the whip. You're creating the motivation. Do you see that? Because when you don't talk to them, and even then, when they don't validate you, you're like, then the whip doesn't work anymore and then the horse stops moving. So you're creating this sabotaging cycle, but it's not really sabotaging, it's also effective. Because this is the only way you've known how to motivate yourself. Yeah. Okay? Mm-hmm. So now what do we do about this? I know it sounds kind of weird, but I don't think you have to abandon that strategy quite yet. Is it unhealthy for you in the long-term? Absolutely. But I think if you need to, the goal here is for you to get to the gym and achieve some of your goals, okay? So if telling people is what gets you to the gym, every week that you get to the gym, whether it's through guilt and whipping yourself or through a love for your body or whatever it is, doesn't matter. Every day that you go to the gym is a win. Do you get that? Yeah. So if you've got to do that, by all means do that. The long-term strategy, though, is for you to think a little bit about where these goals come from. And for you to realize that you don't like who you are and you believe that doing some external action is gonna give you confidence in yourself. That's never gonna happen. So people who are like, I'm not proud of myself, let me go make money. Then I will be proud of myself. I'm not proud of myself, I feel ashamed of myself. Let me go get beautiful, right? Let me go get cosmetic surgery. Let me go get a boob job. Let me go get this kind of thing and that kind of thing and let me drive a fancy car. And then I will feel better about myself because the world will love me. Why do you need the world to love you? Because you don't love yourself. That's that simple. Yeah, that's true. So I think all of your goals are coming out of a non-genuine place. They're not coming out of inspiration. They're not coming out of like love and devotion. They're coming out of a hatred of being where you are. What do you think about that? So as you said, I think that's true, right? You're right in the fact that all my motivation or whatever it is that I'm doing, coming from hate for myself, because I don't like who I am right now. And I feel like what you said about like, it gives me a temporary strategy. I feel like, as of right now, I don't know how it'll be in the future, but as of right now, what my mind is telling me is that that'll be your only strategy until you get to that chance. Until then, there's nothing that, because yeah, I don't know. So that's what I'm saying. I'm saying don't abandon the strategy because I don't think that you can get rid of it quite yet. But there is a different strategy. And that starts with, and I don't know that we can do all of this today, but what I would encourage you is start to think a little bit, Nitin, about when you stopped being proud of yourself. And instead of setting- Right after my gifted child, which was high school. Right? So not surprising. And then the other thing is, right now, the problem is that all of your goals are not gonna actually give you confidence. Does that make sense? Because you're trying to impress other people. But the more that you impress other people, that doesn't make you confident. It just impresses other people. And sometimes you get into the trap of impressing more and impressing more and impressing more and impressing more, and you can never make the whole world happy. You can never make everyone love you. So what I want you to do is think long and hard about what's a single thing that you can be proud of for yourself. Just think about it. And I want you to try to do that thing. It's not about doing it for a month or a year or a week. What is just something that you can say, like, this is not for other people. This is not to feel better about myself. This is something that I wanna do for me. And I'm the one who matters. I kind of like already have that thing. What is it? It hasn't helped me in anything else. So I really like helping other people achieve their goals. It's like, I don't know if it's sabotaging myself, but I really enjoy, like totally enjoy. Like it hasn't gotten, I haven't gotten tired of it, but helping other people with their goals. Okay. So I want you to do, it's fine to do that, but I want you to really pay attention to yourself. Okay. And here's the main question you've gotta ask. I want you to go and help someone and then look in yourself and try to figure out, do I feel good because of the way that they thank me? Or do I feel good because I made the world a better place? I feel good because they're in a better place than they were the day before. But then I feel bad because I'm still shit. Like I don't feel envious or jealous of them, but I feel, I feel honestly, I feel good about myself that I did something. I feel good that they're in a better place than they were the day before. If I feel good about myself, if I succeeded in helping them, but I still feel like shit at the end of the day. As far as- Is that okay? Yeah, I felt like it's fine. Okay. So if I gave you two options, Nitin. Option one is that you become the Nitin of your dreams. Handsome, eligible bachelor, ripped, plays the keyboard, data scientist, bootcamp, works for a famous company. You're making me smile. Right? Works for a company where your parents can brag to all their social circle about their son Nitin who works at Google me. Right? And then you've got another Nitin who every day for the rest of his life makes one person's life better. Works at a mediocre company, makes decent job, makes decent money, but nothing to brag about. When, you know, anytime your family gets together, they always talk about your cousins and other people who are doing amazing things. And then when they ask your parents, how's Nitin doing? Nitin's parents say, oh, he's okay. But you get to help one human being every single day. Which one do you pick? That's a hard question. But if I have to be honest with myself, I'd pick Chad Nitin if on the condition that I am happy after becoming Chad Nitin. If it's ambiguous, I'd still pick Chad Nitin. I don't know, I might go die. Okay, good. So I think you need to be honest with yourself, right? So right now what I'm hearing is that you value that, which is totally fine. So I think you should by all means become Chad Nitin. But I want you to just play around with this stuff. Really pay attention to yourself for helping people. And I think that the one thing I'll give you kind of like one last kind of pointer, which is when you help people and you're still nothing at the end of that, can you be okay with that? Right, can you like kind of acknowledge for a moment that, okay, maybe I'm not a better person, but like that's okay. I've made the world a better place. Can you accept yourself? Yes. So just keep playing around with it. I think you're actually gonna be okay. Like you've just got to work on this internal stuff. You've got to work on why. Because the thing is the reason that you're not confident in yourself is because you're not confident in yourself, right? So like this is the last kind of paradox is that the way that you get confident in yourself is by accepting yourself for who you are, even if that's not Chad Nitin, then you'll really be confident because even Chad Nitin strives for something else, strives for something else, strives for something, I'm not good enough, right? That's the road of Chad Nitin. But if you really want to be confident in yourself, you have to be able to say, I helped another human being. My life is still a mess, but you know what? I can take some pride that the world is a slightly better place and I'm gonna go to sleep peacefully tonight. And tomorrow I'm gonna work on me. And once you're able to do that, you'll develop confidence. And you must forsake the path of the Chad to become the Chad. Kind of see what this is. Kind of see what this entails is gonna be hard. It is gonna be hard. And the problem is that you always take the easy road. You just pull out the guilt whip and smack yourself to make progress. That's easy. Does it hurt? Absolutely. But don't tell me it isn't easy. It's so easy to go to the gym when you brag to everyone that you're gonna go. When you show them, oh, you fuckers, y'all don't actually exercise, I'm gonna go to the gym today. And I'm gonna let you know. So I agree it's gonna be easy. It's gonna be hard. I think that also is like a little problem because I don't feel comfortable telling everybody, bragging, I'm doing this, I'm doing that. The gym is one thing, but then everything, I need to find people to- Yeah, because you can't be arrogant. Then they're not gonna be impressed with you. Yeah. You gotta make them impressed with you without making it seem like you wanna impress them. I'm with you. Something to figure out by myself, I guess. Well, you don't have to figure it out by yourself. You know, we're around. I don't know that I'm gonna have a whole lot more time, but there are a lot of people in this community who are here to help you. Mm-hmm. And I think you're on a good journey, my friend. I'm excited for you. Thank you. Take care. You too, and thank you for doing all this. Thank you for the community for being here. Thank you for the community for being here. Thank you for the community for being here. Thank you to the community for being there. Thank you for helping me with the problems. And you all are awesome. Thank you very much. Thank you for the chat. Thank you. Good luck, my friend. Thank you. Yeah, so we gotta be super careful about... See, we think about negative emotions as bad things, because they're so powerful, right? Fear and anxiety are so crippling. I can't even leave the house because I'm anxious. But what we don't realize is we frequently will manipulate ourselves into harnessing negative emotions for our benefit, right? So we'll tell people, oh yeah, I'm gonna go to the hospital. I'm gonna go to the hospital. We'll tell people, oh yeah, I'm gonna go to the gym because if I don't go, then I'll feel guilty. So we've figured out how to trick ourselves into doing what we want to do, harnessing negative emotions. And it works. So I'm not saying don't abandon it. What I'm saying is that it's not a good long-term solution because then ultimately what you're gonna end up doing is it's like your productivity is tied to suffering. And that's unhealthy. Is it gonna lead to success? Sure. But it's unhealthy. And the key thing is that there is another way. But we never explore that way because this one is so good. Why does everyone procrastinate? It's not because procrastination is a problem. It's because it's a solution. If you found this video helpful, check out Dr. K's guide. We've spent hundreds of hours writing and filming to help people understand their mind so that they can build the lives that they want. So check out the link in the description below. Thank you.