 And then really when you got banned from Twitch, you were sort of like, I'm getting a sense of like, you know, desperation and fear really, that all this stuff was going to be taken away and like you'd pay any price to hang on to it. Any price. This with like, I don't know, like a doctor before like just mental health and stuff so. Yeah, I can imagine. You know, I think a lot of people are, do tend to be nervous. I think, you know, just so you know, we're recording this for upload later, right? We're on the same page about that? Okay. Yeah, so what are you, what are you, help me understand what you're nervous about? Well, I mean, well, when I was younger, I did go to therapy, but it's been so long. It's been like, you know, 15 years. I mean, I just have a lot of things that I've just gone through in my life that is hard to talk about. And I usually don't feel comfortable talking about it to my viewers. Sure. Because, you know, they wouldn't, some of them may not respect what I say. So I just tend to keep things myself. Okay. Well, you know, just a couple of like, oh, a couple of simple ground rules. You know, the first is that anything that you don't feel comfortable talking about, you don't have to talk about. You know, my goal is to try to, you know, maybe help you in some way or educate you or, you know, maybe give you some direction or guidance. And if there's some way I can do that, that's fine. But, you know, the goal here is not to make the masses happy. Right. And so can you just start off by telling me, what do you, what do you go by? What should I call you? I mean, you can just call me Paul. Okay. Yeah, Paul. So can you tell me just, did you have a particular idea of what you wanted to talk about today? I mean, it would be nice to talk about just, yeah, I mean, just, I mean, well, so I have autism. So that would be interesting to talk about. Okay. And also just personal growth and, you know, things like that. Mental health when it comes to streaming in a very stressful environment. I've streamed in some stressful environments. Yeah. Okay. I guess that's really it. I don't, I don't know. Yeah, no, that's, that sounds great, man. So can you tell me a little bit, you say you have autism. So can you tell me a little bit about that? Yeah. So when I was younger, I don't remember what age I was diagnosed with Asperger's. So that I think has played like a pretty big role in my life because I have a, like, it took me a while to like, understand social cues and like, you know, just how to be social. Sure. When I was younger, I was like, super sheltered and always in my house didn't have any friends and talked to anybody had a not a very good, you know, emotional relationship with my parents. So I was very just to myself. And I think that also still carries with me today and streaming. Can you tell me, I mean, if it carries with you, is it okay if I ask some questions about that? Yeah, that's fine. I mean, I'm totally open with you. I just, you know, because you can help guide me through how to talk about this. Sure. So can you tell me a little bit about what growing up was like for you? I mean, it was pretty terrible. It was, I mean, my parents are good people, like they're nice and I love them. But, you know, they just didn't. I just don't think they were on the same page as me. They would always bring me to like, it brought me to therapists that put me on different medicine. And, you know, but they just never really, I don't think, understood how to, you know, just communicate with me when I was going through a lot of my issues. So it caused me to be a very angry child and angry person growing up. And, you know, that caused me to lash out at school, lash out against other people, lash out of my parents. And so my childhood was very, you know, it's full of a lot of problems that I had. I was like a very troubled kid. Yeah, it sounds like you were kind of misunderstood and didn't know really how to handle that. Yeah, I mean, I think looking back on it, whenever I would get angry or upset, I just wouldn't know how to express myself. And my parents didn't know what to do. So because I wouldn't tell them because I'm not very good at expressing how I feel. So I think they just kind of had to guess. Can you like, does anything in particular come to mind in terms of like, you know, times or memories of when, you know, things you got angry and kind of lashed out? I mean, not I mean, I don't really remember specific moments. There was this one time I destroyed the Christmas tree. It was they had put me on Zoloft and then which I'm sure it's like a medicine. And then I didn't like it because I was like a like a zombie and like I just didn't feel very good. So I just stopped it cold turkey. And they kept they kept they wanted to give me like another medicine that I didn't really want to take either. So I just got very angry and I lashed out and I just like destroyed the Christmas tree, knocked it over, punched a couple of holes in the walls in my room. And, you know, then my parents got really angry. Obviously, I did that and they came and, you know, yelled at me and spanked me or whatever. I mean, this was middle school. So I don't know, maybe probably 12, 13. Yeah. So and do you have a sense of why they put you on medication or why they thought you needed medication? I mean, I was just, you know, I was just always misbehaving. So they probably just, you know, the doctors probably told them that I should get some medication to help me get better. Like I said, I had a lot of anger issues, so they put me on Zoloft and these like mood stabilizers, but they didn't really help me because I don't think I had like I'm not like bipolar or anything. I just like I can control my anger, but just I just got to a certain point when I was younger that I was always angry at myself. I was always angry at myself. I was always angry at myself. I had zero validation from anyone. So that sounds weird to me to medicate misbehavior. Well, I mean, they I just don't think they knew what to do because are in school. I was really bad and I had bad grades and I just how so. How was I? Yeah, what does that mean? You were bad in school. I would always try to be the class clown, so I would, you know, misbehave in class to make people laugh and then I would get in trouble. But then I also I would be very angry in school and lash out at people because I also had no friends. So, you know, making people laugh was like the only positive thing that I would do. But I had to get myself in trouble to do that. So it's kind of like a bad situation. Yeah, I mean, I can imagine it must have been tough to be like a kid and to think like, oh, the only way I can make friends or make people sort of like, you know, treat me well or appreciate that I'm around as if I get in trouble. So it's hard. You really had to you had to pay a price to, you know, kind of connect with people and make make people appreciate you. Well, I mean, they still didn't really appreciate me. I got bullied like crazy in school. Like I was probably one of the most bullied kids in school. I have really, really bad stories that I don't want to tell you. I mean, I was really bad at school. I was really bad at school. I was probably one of the most bullied kids in school. I have really, really bad stories that I could tell you of me getting like of just things that have happened to me in specifically in middle school. That was the fucking worse. I'd love to hear if you're comfortable sharing that. So there was this one time and I think it was like seventh grade or something. There was this teacher who was really popular and she was pregnant and I was in class and, you know, I didn't want to do my work because, you know, whatever reason. I was just sitting there and she got very angry at me for not doing my work. And she, you know, came up. I don't know if she was like going through mood swings or something, but she came up and she started like scolding me about not doing my work. And I'm like, I don't really want to do it. And then she started, you know, kind of yelling a little bit for me to do my work. And then she like, I don't know, started getting cramps or something in her stomach. And I think she ended up, well, she, I think she went to the hospital because she had to like leave and, you know, the principal came in, had to like take over the class. And she was, you know, going through like a pretty major episode in class, I think from the cramps. So after that, when the bell rang, the rest of the kids in the class just made up this rumor that I had killed her baby. And, you know, that she was pregnant with, which obviously wasn't true. But for the rest of the year, I was just known as a baby killer. Oh, my God, by the entire school. And I would tell the teachers and the principal and they just would say they just didn't care. Really? They said, well, I guess we can put you in this isolated classroom. So that's what they did. They put me in this like in school suspension classroom for like two months, which was terrible. As well. So, yeah, that's how seventh grade went. Dude, that's that sounds awful. It sounds like almost sounds like you got punished for reaching out for help. Well, yeah, I mean, I'm from a small town in Florida. They had literally no resources whatsoever. So they just kind of put you like they just didn't know what to do. Or they just had no money for resources or I don't know. Do you remember how you felt about it back then? I mean, oh, I mean, I was angry. I don't really know how I felt, but I can just remember my entire childhood. I was just angry all the time. And I just hated everyone. I hated myself. I hated everything. I just thought that, you know, I was just not belonging anywhere. That sounds terrible, man. Yeah, but I feel like it helped me learn, like it helped me grow as a person, like pretty quick, at least in that kind of regard of like toughening up. Like, I'm a pretty tough person and I can deal with a lot of shit. So, yeah, I can imagine that to come out of that on the other end, you have to be quite the survivor. But, yeah, so I mean, and then that was just seventh grade. Other grades, you know, were also had their own stories. So I'd love to hear a little bit more about that. OK, when I mean, sixth grade was just basic bullying. Nothing really crazy, to be honest. When I was in eighth grade, there was this kid, his name, I think eighth grade, maybe it was still seventh. I don't really remember. But this kid, his name was Pimp and he was just this kid in my PE class. And every time we would go to the locker room, he would like pretend rape me. And I know that sounds insane, but he would. So I would always try. I would change in the stall instead of changing like in front of everyone, because I just didn't feel comfortable with that. And one day he, you know, usually he didn't go that far. He would like come up and like slap my ass and like, you know, just like. Just like harass me in front of his friends. And it was just funny. But this one time when I was changing the stall, he crawled under the stall and he like, you know, he had his pants on and everything. But he like grabbed me and he pushed me on the floor. He got on top and he was like pretend raping me in front of and then like he opened the stall and there was just like 20 kids, like the whole locker room, just there laughing as he's doing. And so that was obviously humiliating as fuck. And that was terrible. But he was also the most popular kid in our grade, so I couldn't even tell a teacher or anything. But someone else actually told the teacher that this kid had like, you know, fucking pretend raped me in the locker room, you know, and humiliated me. And he ended up getting expelled from school. But everyone thought that I told the teacher on him, so they just called me a snitch for the rest of that year. And they just bullied me even harder because they're like, oh, you fucking, you know, got pimp expelled. And I'm just like, I didn't do anything. Wow, dude. So it's just like a double whammy. This is terrible. Yeah, I've heard of a lot of bad bullying. Like I got bullied growing up. You know, I grew up in East Texas and, you know, as a small town, Texas kind of stuff where, you know, just your but that was like your run of the mill, you know, racism, like some degree of like bigotry, like pretty like standard stuff. I mean, this is honestly, Paul, like just as a as a professional, this is some of the worst stuff I've ever heard, like someone going through. Yeah, I mean, it was it was pretty bad. And I, you know, obviously, yeah, I didn't have anyone to talk to it about. So I just kept it all to myself. So you can see why so angry. I can I can definitely see why you would be so angry and lash out and stuff. I mean, I don't know. I mean, did your parents know that this stuff was going on? Yeah, I told my parents and I mean, obviously they went to the school were upset that this was happening, but the school, I mean, they didn't do anything. There's they I don't remember, obviously, what happened with my parents going in there and talking to them. But I just remember nothing happening. So I don't think the school did anything. But after, though, actually, that was seventh grade, the pimp thing, because I remember eighth grade, I actually did get transferred to a different school. But it was not it was so bad that I got transferred, though, because what ended up happening was so my parents complained or something. And I guess we had a meeting and I was there and they were like, OK, we can send Paul to this other school that's out of the jurisdiction because they have this like special classroom that he can sit in. And it's like a one classroom a day type thing. So instead of going to eight periods, I just have I just stay in one classroom all day with like seven other kids and with like behavioral issues was called a self-contained classroom. And people who had emotional behavioral problems go in there instead of just like expelling me from school. So I transferred to that school, but it was awful because obviously since it was so far away, they had to send a bus to my house that was only for me. I was the only person on the bus. So they sent me a little short bus instead of like a normal bus. And everyone at my bus stop of like 20 kids, I was like, oh, yeah, I'm going to this new school now. And they're like, oh, you know, that's interesting. And then this fucking short bus pulls up and they all just start calling me retard because, you know, obviously the short bus is like it's like a meme that it's like for slow kids. Right. So I was very upset that that was the bus that they decided to send me every day because, yeah, going to the bus stop was terrible. Then these are my neighbors. You know, they're calling me retard just every day. Oh my God, Paul. But when I got to the new school, it was actually it was good, though, because I actually enjoyed being in that classroom and the self-contained classrooms actually what I spent my entire high school in as well. Until I was a senior, at least because, yeah, I was I felt very comfortable in there and the other kids didn't bully me. We were all pretty like cool with each other. Everyone was pretty nice to each other. I think it's because they all went through like their own issues. So they didn't maybe judge me as much. Interesting. And so I'm really curious, Paul, like I can. You know, I can imagine or remember when I was 13, sort of like how I had a conception of things like. You know why stuff happened, why I got treated the way that I did. What was your understanding of like why this stuff was happening to you? I mean, did you even understand that something was happening to you, that you were sort of being treated differently, that you were. Like, what did you think about yourself in your situation growing up? I mean, I don't really know. I remember just thinking, yeah, this is unfair. But I also just thought to myself, oh, I'm just, you know. Clearly there's just something wrong with me, because if I'm having these issues and other people aren't. I suppose there must be something wrong with me. So I just, you know, had really low self-esteem. I didn't know what was wrong with me because I actually didn't get diagnosed with Asperger's. For a while, maybe it was when I was a little bit older than like 12, because I remember going to a lot of therapists. They knew I had some kind of autism, but they didn't know exactly what until I think I was maybe like 14 or something or 15. Because I, my parents ended up having to take me to this one really good specialist. And he then was like, OK, this sounds like Asperger's. Which I mean, it's hard to remember everything in like a chronological order. But yeah, so even but even with that diagnosis, I still I at the time, I didn't think I had Asperger's because my parents then started enrolling me in these therapy groups with other kids that had Asperger's. And, you know, the other kids in those therapy groups had it way more severely than I did. So they acted way different, obviously. And so I didn't even feel like I belonged in those groups either. Because I mean, now as an adult, you know, and maturing a little bit, I think like, yeah, I do have I think I do have Asperger's. But it's not because I like I just have a hard time expressing my emotions. And it's like I can't really feel emotions very well. OK, but explain to me what Asperger's is or what your understanding of it is. I mean, it's it's just when you, you know, have a hard time seeing other people's perspectives, perhaps. And you have a hard time reading people's like body language and understanding what they're thinking. And and then maybe I have a hard time with talking to people in the form of like, you know, with like sarcasm or joking with people. Or I'll say something that I think is funny, but other people, it's like offensive or rude to them. I had a huge problem with that when I was younger. I would say something and people would get like offended by it. And I wasn't trying to offend anyone. So it sounds to me like like sometimes you're just not quite on the same wavelength. Is that a good way to describe it? Yeah, I think that's a good way to describe that. Yeah. And and that sometimes you're not really sure what you're feeling or how to express that to people. And maybe some of that I'm going to assume for a second that that's sort of negative emotions, but that emotional turmoil kind of manifests in in ways that can create challenges for you and your relationships. Yeah, I mean, essentially, you know, yeah, make making relationships with people has been tough because I have a hard time with I mean, I don't know, like the basic stuff needed to build relationships. Like I just have a hard time. Like now as an adult, I can it's easier. But when I was younger, it was so hard. I didn't understand how to be friends with somebody. Or I didn't understand how to even like have basic communication with people. You know, when I was like 16. And what would you say you've learned as an adult? Like, what are some of the key things that you've sort of figured out in terms of how to be friends with someone and how to communicate? Well, now, I mean, I just I try my best to go out of my way to, you know, be a friend to my friends, right? You know, ask how they're doing and, you know, just, you know, ask if they want to hang out, you know, it sounds basic, but I just I had to learn this stuff. It didn't come natural to me. Like I used to read I used to like look on the Internet and Google and like read books and like how to like talk and be friends, like how to read somebody's face. Like I didn't know how to do any of that shit. What are you getting from my face? Are you reading my face now? I mean, yeah, you just look like you're listening. OK, I am listening. I mean, it's still, you know, it's still a little bit of a challenge. I mean, it's still I mean, I'm pretty good at it now, obviously, because streaming has really helped me a lot with understanding social cues and everything. But even like when I was 20 before I even started streaming, I still had a hard time. Yeah. So can you so it sounds like actually getting in that self-contained classroom was was a pretty good experience for you. It seems like you were able to form connections with people. People really didn't bully you and stuff like that. Yeah. So high school. Can you tell me a little bit about what high school was like? I mean, I mean, high school was pretty, pretty plain. I well, when I was in ninth grade, though, this was the only not plain thing. So I was still obviously upset. The self-contained classroom was was nice. I didn't get bullied in, but I was still upset that I was in there still kind of. And I felt like and I was still just an angry kid. So the teacher came up to me and was like wanting to have me do my work and I didn't want to do my fucking work. And I started arguing with the teacher in my ninth grade class. And then he was like, you know, fucking yelling. And I was just like and I threatened him. I was like, I'm going to punch you or I'm going to, I don't know, stab you with this pencil. I said I'm going to stab you with this pencil. I just don't like saying it now because that makes me sound like a like a bad person, but I was just an angry kid. So I said that to the teacher. I wasn't actually going to do that. I was just angry. But so obviously they set up a meeting and they were going to expel me because that's like a threat to the teacher. And I was so angry and upset. I started yelling in the room with with my mom there. And I started yelling at my mom because she said something that I didn't like to the teacher. And I said something about autism or Asperger's or something. I just felt so angry that she said that because I kept denying that I had Asperger's at that time. So I started yelling at her. And you know what the fucking school did, they ended up calling the resource officer, like the school cop, and they had me arrested for yelling at my mom. Like I was just yelling like and they arrested me instead of like trying to de-escalate the situation. Obviously, I didn't get charged with anything, but they sent me over to the juvenile detention place and I ended up sitting there for like two hours. And then they wouldn't release me back to my parents because that was because I was yelling at them and that was where the situation occurred. So I had to go to my friend's mom for like a week before I could go back to my parents. And that was terrible because I thought that was totally undeserving. Yeah. I mean it and when you say you thought it was undeserving, what made you think that that was undeserving or unfair? Well, I mean, obviously I'm going to be upset that they're trying to expel me from school. Sure. And you know, I had a lot of emotional problems when I was younger. So I just would hope. I mean, this is not how I was thinking when I was younger. But now in hindsight, I'm like, I would hope the school would maybe have a little bit more understanding. But they didn't. They just were like, oh, well, we don't want to deal with it. So just call the police. Yeah. I'm hearing a theme here of people sort of not trying to understand you. I mean, yeah, that's sounds that's like the that's like the plot here of my childhood. But I mean, that's tough, man. Yeah, I mean, it was it was. But so I ended up going so instead of I got expelled, I went to this other school and it was full of bad kids and like gangsters, drug dealers, fucked up just kids that were actually criminals and like on probation and shit. And clearly I'm I don't belong there. So my parents ended up putting me into this this camp. It's called Eckerd, Eckerd's Learning Center. And it was just like it was it was this camp that kids go to when they have behavior problems. Well, half the kids there were orphans that were being misbehaving in their orphanage. And the other half were kids who got arrested and got sent there by the courts. But my parents could opt to send me there since I was in this alternative school, but they also but they had to pay money. So they did. And I went there for three months instead of go instead of this alternative school that had these like drug dealers and shit. So I was and I was I actually liked it there. I mean, it was interesting. I ran away three times and then they had to find me and they brought me back and whatever. And whatever. But I all I had to do was be good for like a month and fill out this check sheet and I'd be out. I ended up staying there for three months because the first two months I was misbehaving. Last month I was good and they let me go. And I got back. I got to go right back to my school. I got expelled from. And that's where my behavior issues started to subside. That camp actually helped me. Yeah, I'm sorry. Keep going. That camp helped me understand how to control myself a lot better because. Well, I mean, like I said, that half the kids there were there by the courts and had been the actual jail like in the other half were, you know, kids who were who were orphans. So they obviously had not a very good life at that time. So I kind of like got more perspective. And I didn't misbehave as much because they would beat the shit out of me if if I did, because if somebody starts misbehaving, then we have to go in this like group. We have to sit in like a circle and talk about it for an hour. Nobody wants to do that. So if anyone makes the whole group sit there for an hour in a group, then later they they jump you. They like beat you up. So obviously, I'm not going to misbehave there. I don't want to get fucking beat. I already got initiated when I got there. They beat me with they put like something inside a sock and I hit me with it while sleeping. So that was yeah, that was not fun. So I didn't want to be the other kids. Right. Yeah. The other kids. So we had three cabins because it was in the woods. This like camp, we had three cabins. So the kids in my cabin would, you know, they did that as like an initiation. So I'm hearing that actually like, you know, physical consequences actually helped you. Well, in terms of like learning how to regulate yourself. Yeah, it helped me with like just self-control. Like I didn't lash out. I was still angry, but I just kept to myself. I didn't lash out at those people, at those kids or anything. So and then after a while of not lashing out, I started to like be more content with, I don't know, being there. And I kind of liked being there. It was like kind of nice to be told what to do all the time. And it was kind of nice to, I don't know, like just have a structure in your life because, you know, you have the lineup, you know, in a line. When you walk places, you have to do your laundry, you have to clean your bed, flip your mattress, you have to make your own food. You're completely independent. Wow. So it was food. Like what kind of food would you make? Well, I mean, you wouldn't really make the food, but you would set it out to the other kids. Like you'd make the table. Got it. So it was kind of like that. It was like a once a week thing. You, because every kid got, you know, they take turns or whatever. Yeah. So that place helps me be independent and have more self control. So when I left that place and I graduated from it, it was, I don't know, I think it like really helped me become like a better person. Can I just point out, Paul, a couple of just themes that I'm hearing? Yeah. So, you know, the first is that I really do get the sense that like people have not tried to understand you. I mean, I'm kind of hearing so many different stories of, you know, early on, like growing up, you were misbehaving and your parents sort of like a lot of times you would get kind of punished. And I think on the one hand, it sort of makes sense because maybe you were lashing out and kind of saying inappropriate things. But a lot of times, you know, it seems like people sort of didn't care about your side of things. You know, this whole like getting expelled and like you kind of expressing anger and then expressing anger at your mom. I'm sort of hearing and I've heard this theme before that, you know, everyone blames you for being angry, but like people may not be trying to understand like why you're angry in the first place. Like, what's your side of the story? And then certainly with with, you know, the whole pimp thing, because it's like you had something that you were trying to explain to people. You're like, I didn't say anything, but they didn't care to listen and they didn't care to understand. And so I'm hearing a lot of sort of situations where maybe you got punished for, you know, stuff that really wasn't your fault or that, you know, people had kind of listened to you or bothered to kind of try to understand your perspective. Like, like, or they really didn't do that. What do you think about that? Is that fair to say? That's pretty accurate. Yeah, nobody. Nobody cared to listen to me when I was younger. I mean, I had therapists, but they weren't very good until I got the one guy that diagnosed the Asperger's. I stayed with him for like six years. Wow. What was can you tell me a little bit about what made the therapists not good and what made this guy good? Well, I mean, my first therapist that I had, he didn't even say I had autism. He said I ADHD and he gave me, you know, Adderall or whatever. And I didn't do very good on Adderall. I just got worse. My behavior got worse because now I'm super stimulated at school and I definitely didn't want to do anything. And now I'm like super agitated and I got angry quicker and like, and I don't know. And then I went back to the therapist and I would tell him like, I feel worse because I didn't know how to express myself. So I wasn't like, it's the medicine. I just said, I feel worse. So he just put me on a different medicine instead of like trying to maybe understand why I felt worse. So that's like the theme of all these therapists that I would go to typically until that one guy. He actually didn't give me any medicine. He just gave me advice, which is much better. And so you stayed with him for six years. That's a long time. Yeah, he was this top rated guy in Palm Beach. So we had to drive like 45 minutes to Palm Beach in order to get to him. My parents had to, unfortunately, you know, he's very expensive. My parents had to pay like $700 every time we go there and he didn't take insurance. So he's like one of the like, of course, he's, you know, just a very expensive doctor. But for good reason, he was really good at what he did. And he, you know, actually sat there and talked to me and like listened to what I had to say and gave me advice instead of just just giving me medicine. I really liked him. I like I looked forward to seeing him. He was like my the person I actually could open up to. Does he know that he was that important to you? I mean, no, probably not. I've not I've been told. I mean, obviously haven't spoke to him in many years. So how long has it been? I don't know. I think I mean, I think the last time I saw him was like 19 or something. And how old are you now? Twenty six. Have you ever thought about reaching out to him and sharing some of this stuff? I mean, I haven't, but I could. I just I always just thought he was just like a busy guy. You know, he's the number one therapist in Palm Beach. So I just never thought he would have time for any of that. So but yeah, so I mean, after I got out of the camp and, you know, that's when I, you know, my parents brought me to the hospital. I got out of the camp and, you know, that's when I, you know, my parents brought me to this guy. And then at school, I started being better because the camp helped me learn some things. I'm able to get advice from from this new therapist who's given me, you know, good advice about Asperger's and stuff and like how to, you know, communicate with people. And I started being better in school. I started not misbehaving. I went through my ninth, the second half of ninth grade all the way up until I was a senior in this like self-contained classroom, which is a weird experience like in high school to have just one classroom all day for three years. But since I was good for three years, they're like, OK, let's let them out into the general population classrooms. As a senior and yeah, I did well. So and I felt like good. I was like, I was thinking bullied and like kids are being nice to me. And I was like, I felt like I was hanging out with some people like I felt pretty good about myself at that point. Wow, dude, that's great. To be fair, though, we were like 18 or 17, 18 and as a senior. So it's like obviously kids are past the bullying part. So I didn't forgive any of them because these are the same kids that used to bully me. Yeah, I don't know that people are past bullying at the age of 17 or 18. I think sometimes it gets better. But, you know, I know people who are in their 30s and still bully other people. But I'm happy to hear that. It sounds like you you'd learned a lot of skills. You would learn maybe a little bit about how to control yourself a little bit better. Had learned how to make friends, you know, ask people how they're doing, ask if they want to hang out. And and so I assume things with your parents got better, too. Yeah, I mean, my parents and I are good now. We just know it's just a rough childhood. Yeah, now. Sorry. What are you saying? No, go for it. Now that I, you know, I'm an adult so I can express myself better. So clearly my relationship with my parents is better because I can, you know, tell them how I feel and like stuff now. So yeah, I was just going to say, I think actually it sounds like your parents tried very hard to kind of figure out, you know, how to help you. I'm hearing that they were really confused, but, you know, it sounds like they tried quite hard. Like they, you know, had you seeing different kinds of people and sure, those people ended up not being the right ones. But, Paul, I've heard so many stories where, you know, the parents sort of give up at some point, right? Or because what I'm really hearing is that your parents tried like so many different things to try to help you and even drive you 45 minutes and pay 700 bucks a session to try to get you the help that you need for like six years. Like it sounds like you tried really hard. My parents had to take out a loan to bring me to that camp because, you know, I was in court ordered. So I had to pay like six thousand a month to send me there for three months. So they had to take out a loan for that. And yeah, if I was a parent, I don't think I would do that for my kid. I would want to help my kid, but that would be like, that's just a huge risk. It's a lot of money. So my parents are very good with that. Yeah. I mean, how do you understand why they did that if you wouldn't do it? What do you mean? You said that you wouldn't do that for your kid, you know? Well, I mean, it's just a lot of money and I don't know if it's going to help my kid. So if it doesn't help them, it's a lot of money to just, you know, throw away. Yeah. So I don't know if I would take that financial risk. Makes makes a lot of sense. How do you understand why your parents would take that financial risk? I mean, I think they just wanted to help me any way that they could, you know, despite any financial situation they could end up in. Yeah. Yeah. Because I mean, they saw they saw my my misery. Like, you know, they they they felt bad like they didn't want me to be miserable. So sure. Are you feeling anything as I ask you these questions? I mean, yeah, I feel I'm just like looking back at memories and it makes me feel like I don't know, like. I don't know how it makes me feel. It's just like a weird. Feeling, but it's not very strong. It's just like. Memories, I don't know how to explain it, to be honest. Yeah, yeah, that's that's what we're here for. So do you have a sense of why I asked you that question at that moment? No, I don't. Right. So I saw a change in your face. So you started I'm not quite sure if you were like like. Sucking your teeth or something like your facial expression change, you started to do something with your mouth. I'm not trying to make you self conscious. I realize it could be doing that, but I noticed signs in your face that you were experiencing some kind of emotion. Yeah. And and so it was a different kind of emotion from what I've seen so far expressed in your face. And and you know, if I if I had to say, like, like, can we talk about that emotion and maybe try to understand what it is? Yeah, I mean, we can talk about it. So so let's let's kind of think about this. You you had images in your mind of you and what were the images of? Well, I was just trying to remember, you know, things that happened when I was young. So I was just, you know, replaying the situations. And yeah, it's just maybe it's a little bit of a discomfort discomfort feeling. Maybe that's like what I felt. But I don't really know. Probably just come. I think so. Let me let me ask you kind of something weird. Do you know what you felt was negative or positive or maybe a little bit of both? I think it was kind of positive. Yeah. I mean, it's uncomfortable to think about, but it's positive because I like to see my, you know, where I've how I used to be when I was younger versus now. It's it's nice to look back and be in like, know that I have learned so many things. You know what I mean? Yeah. So what do you think about love? Like, do you think it was love? Do I think it was? Well, what do you mean? It was love. What you were feeling just now? No, I don't think so. OK, what would I be loving? Ah, good question. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but maybe it was being the recipient of love. With my parents? How so? So here's so it's kind of weird, right? Because it's a positive feeling that's uncomfortable. Right. And then you're actually remembering like miserable circumstances. Uh huh. So that's kind of confusing, right? Because like, if I'm remembering misery, but I'm feeling a positive emotion, like, I'm feeling a positive emotion. Like, how does that work? You with me? Yeah. And then we were sort of talking about essentially like, you know, your parents kind of taking a big financial risk. And then I started to see your face change when when we sort of talked about that, you started to say like, well, you know, they saw how miserable I was. And and what I'm kind of seeing hearing is like a story of, you know, you not being understood, you not knowing how to express things to them. And at the same time, them putting themselves in like financial risk, essentially to roll the dice, because they didn't know if $6000 a month is going to help you or not. But they saw how miserable you are. And and so I'm wondering whether like, and it can be hard to like, be, it can be hard to for other people to like, feel to see our misery and like do something about it. It can actually be like really uncomfortable for us to receive kind of like love or faith. Or or even be treated with value. No, I mean, I'm not sure if that's the case. Or or even be treated with value. No, I feel that's that's crazy. You say that because I literally feel uncomfortable with positive reinforcement a lot of the time. Like when people give me compliments, I feel uncomfortable by that. Like I like compliments and I for sure. But I, you know, am a little bit uncomfortable because it's just I mean, even now it's just maybe I'm not used to it or I don't know. I mean, obviously, as a streamer, I'm used to it, but it's still like if a viewer says, OK, let me reiterate that if a viewer compliments me in the chat, obviously, there's no discomfort. But if the person in real life says it to me, it's different. There's a little bit more. I'm a little bit more awkward with it. Yeah. So, Paul, do you do you? So maybe maybe love is not the right word. Love is not the right word. So like, what about feeling valued? Yeah, I mean, I don't know if I mean, I look back, my parents valued me for obviously, for sure. But I don't know if that's what I'm feeling right when I looked back at that. But I don't know. I mean, you would know more than me potentially. Sort of right. Because you're the one who's actually feeling it though. So it's not like I'm a mind reader. You're not a mind reader, but I just I don't know. I guess I'm sorry. I just can't. Like I have such a hard time with emotions. Yeah, I understand that. Why are you apologizing? I just don't want you to be, I don't know, like upset that I'm not explaining it well. Yeah. Are you getting the sense that I'm upset? I mean, no, but I just do like, you know, pre-apology. Yep. So let's understand where that apology comes from. So like, if you're not getting a signal from me that I'm upset, I'm sort of getting that your mind is actually activated pre-apology.exe. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. It's like, oh, maybe I'm not doing a good job. So I better apologize, because then this person will be disappointed because I'm not doing what I'm supposed to be doing. Is that why you're apologizing? Yeah. So that I think is also like an important bit of programming you've learned, because I think in the past, people have punished you and been upset with you because you haven't done some things that you've been incapable of doing. Yeah, that makes sense. And so I'm not expecting you to be good at this. I actually, I don't expect you to be bad at it either. It's just... It's just beating on me. It's getting really hot. Yeah, totally cool, man. I kind of think about this as like, this is a co-op game. So like, you know, if it's helpful, we can try to explore emotions and maybe like, help you understand what some of that stuff is. Swim around in there. I may not know, you may not know, but hopefully we can figure it out together. What do you think about that? Yeah, I mean, I would... If I could understand emotions better, that would be really amazing because... I'm not gonna lie, when you asked about love earlier, I just thought, I was like a little worried for a second because love is like, just one of those things I totally have... Such a hard time feeling, don't really understand. And I just, you know, it makes me feel bad because I should love, you know, more often, right? Like I should love people. Like I love my parents, but it doesn't come in the form of like a physical emotion. Yeah, so that's why I tossed out that word there because it occurs to me that... I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, sometimes that's how love can feel. Like if you can feel love, you can feel love. It's weird because love is sometimes an emotion that we think of as a positive emotion, but oftentimes it's like, it hurts on the inside. It's weird like that. So, so I'll try to explain a little bit. Okay. So, you were thinking about, you know, like, like, how do you feel about love? Like, is it like a positive emotion or is it like a negative emotion? Or is it like a positive emotion? I don't know. So, like I said, like, I think it's like a positive emotion, like, it's like, it's like a positive emotion, but it's like a negative emotion. So I'll try to explain a little bit. Okay. So you were thinking about your misery. Uh huh. Right. And you were also saying that logically, it doesn't make sense to take a, you know, alone on rolling the dice on a kid who's like kind of hopeless. Like they've tried a bunch of stuff, right? Like you've been to special cross rooms, you've been here, you've tried this therapist, that therapist. And so I could imagine that like you maybe felt some degree of hopelessness, you may not have recognized it. But I think on some level, like you understood that you were bouncing around from thing to thing to thing. And like, you know, like I almost get this is the second theme. So I get the sense that you were a kid that no one knew what to do with. Like, what do we do with Paul? Like, what do we do? Like, well, let's try to medicate him. Let's try to put him in this classroom. Let's try to put him in that classroom. Let's expel him. Let's suspend him. Let's like, what do we do with this kid? And it can be really, really hard. I mean, the, you know, one of the most devastating things to your self esteem, the self esteem of a child is for like the world to not know like what to do with this kid. And to be that kid. And then for your parents to sort of like have tried so much stuff, and it kind of like not having worked. And I don't know that you sort of consciously understood this, but I think it manifests in self esteem, like, you felt like probably not like a great kid, right? And you were like really angry all the time. And angry was just sort of like the way that these these emotions, like these other emotions manifested. Yeah, I mean, that that makes I mean, yeah, the anger just was everything. Yep. And so when you think about that kid, and you think about your parents sort of like, knowing that maybe this wasn't a great idea, like logically didn't sound like a great idea, but for them to really put themselves at financial risk. When we didn't know if it was going to work, like, it sounds like a stupid decision. But like, it's a stupid decision they made for you. Yeah. And that's and that's, yeah, I mean, that's like love, right? So yeah, exactly. Right. So like, and that's why it feels kind of weird on the inside, because it's not like a positive emotion. There's like, there's some kind of hurt. But it's also like, you can tell that you are on the receiving end of someone's like, stupidity. That you are on the receiving end of like, they're making a bad decision because they love you, right? It's kind of weird. Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, no, that makes a lot of sense. Yeah. And so sometimes that's what love feels like. So I'd say like, take a snapshot, you know, screen cap that, and like to feel valued when maybe you yourself didn't think you were worth it. Like, for someone to take a risk on you that may not have worked out. But for them to like care about you that much, and like put their own financial health at stake, like for your sake, it can it's like something that maybe like, there's a little bit of like, like, you know, pity or something on that spectrum in there too. Does that feel right to you? No, I don't think pity. I hate pity so much. I hate when anyone gives me pity. So I don't. I know when I feel that. Okay, okay. Yeah, so you know, I'd encourage you Paul to just kind of like, pay attention to that. Because sometimes that's what love or feeling valued, or feeling cared for. Do any of those kind of resonate with with maybe what you could you could have felt back then? Like in terms of when I asked you about your feelings? No, back then I didn't feel cared for at all. No, no, I don't mean back then. I mean, like just a few minutes ago. Like as we were talking about it. A few weeks ago. No, sorry. Sorry, a few minutes ago. Oh, yeah, I mean, looking back on it. Yeah, they I, I, I guess that could be what it is. Like, that I felt cared for. No, so I think what's what's happening is that you didn't feel cared for back then. But now you're realizing that maybe you were cared for. Yeah, that actually that that could be it. Because it is like, I felt like, yeah, it's like a positive feeling that I was feeling. So even though it was like you were having like memories of hurt with a positive feeling in the present. Right? Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. That's, it's crazy to think about. Like, I'm just thinking about is, it's kind of crazy, because I didn't ever really think like that ever. When I think of, I just look at stuff like with black and white, honestly, with everything that I look at, and what I think about. So I don't. So it's, it's, it's interesting that you you put it that way. Because it's, it's really makes me think and like, oh, maybe that's right. That is true. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I think this is, you know, and how do you come up with likes, like, how do you know that? Like, how do you come up with that? How do I come up with? Are you asking me because you want to do this process yourself down the road? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, how do you look at stuff? Not so black and white? With practice. Right. So so so this is what what training is for. And this is what practice is for. But I think that let me see if I can give you a better answer. Let me see if I can give you a better answer. Because what I'm hearing in that question is, can you teach me to do that on my own? And can we do that again? Yeah, is that is that the question? Yeah, yeah. So let me can I have a second to think about how to teach that to you? Okay. Okay, so here's the thing. When you're growing up. So let's black and white is fine. Like, that's not a big deal. So when you're growing up, you have a conception of things, right? Like if you think about your memory, your memory is laid down by a particular mind. So your memories of like, you know, being frustrated with your parents, you know, being frustrated with your parents, you know, being frustrated with your parents, like, putting you on Zoloft, those memories were like, saved to your hard drive by like a 12 year old mind. Does that make sense? Yeah, it's kind of like if I draw a picture of, you know, a dinosaur, and I'm six, and I have that picture on a piece of paper, and then I like 20 years later, I'm a great artist, the piece of paper with the dinosaurs was still made by a six year old. So it's not like as my skill as an artist improves, all of my past pictures get better. Does that make sense? Yeah, bizarrely, our memories are the same way. So our memories get laid down by the mind that exists at that time. So it's not going to be very easy for me to see it other than in black and white because I was so young. Exactly. So but now what you can do is now there's like 29 year old Paul, right? So you can actually go and revisit, huh? 2626. Sorry. There's there's 26 year old Paul, 25 year old Paul 24, whatever doesn't really matter. There's Paul, there's the adult Paul who can go back and revisit those experiences. But you're going to revisit them with your adult mind. And when you revisit them with your adult mind, there's like actually a technique to like go through those like experiences again, right? So for example, like, you know, you can, and this, this gets, this is where things get a little bit tricky, like, you have to really sort of do it in a in a systematic way, where like, you can kind of say like, okay, what happened first? What happened next? What happened third? And there's actually like a technique of almost like journaling where you can just write down like, you know, I would say like, write down one page of like a memory that you had. And then and then you can sort of analyze it with your current mind. And you can go through and like look at each sentence and ask yourself, what could I have been feeling then? What could I have been feeling then? What could I have been feeling then? What could I have been feeling then? Because your memory is going to be like, anger is going to be each of those things. Right? Like all your memory is just going to be purely of anger. But if we think about, you know, the the scenario with like pimp in the bathroom, like, there's like shame, there's humiliation, there's like, you know, injustice, there are all kinds of other emotions, besides anger. And so as we revisit our past experiences, we can take that six year olds drawing and we can kind of like fix it up a little bit and then you'll have a new perspective on it. That makes sense. I don't know if I'd be very good at that. But I guess like you said, it's with training. Absolutely. Right. So when you say I wouldn't be very good at it. Are you talking about aptitude or experience? I mean, I guess a little bit of both. I just so too. Yeah, I'm not very good with the with this. Like I would have never even thought about the word like shame or injustice when you brought up the pimp situation. I would only think of anger. Because that, you know, it's that emotion is, well, a shameful emotion, at least in my experience, shame doesn't really translate well memory, as well as anger, at least. Well, yeah, I mean, that's that's what I'm saying, right? So like, like it, when you say translate well in memory, your memory is going to be dominated by experiences of anger. And this is where anger is actually a protective emotion. Anger is what protects us from all the other negative emotions. Because like, you know, shame is like harder to deal with than anger is like, at least in anger, like, there's there's like something you can like, you know, direct your anger at. So you don't have to look at yourself, you don't have to feel ashamed. If I'm pissed at pimp for like, you know, I get pissed at him, I don't have to feel hurt. Anger is actually what protects us against hurt. That makes sense. I mean, yeah, actually. Oh, yeah, that does make a lot of sense. Because shame is I mean, that's, it's probably the worst emotion in the world. If I could do anything to avoid feeling shameful, like I would love to. But what do you do when people pity you, Paul? I get angry. Right. I don't like people pity me. I feel like they are, I don't know, maybe being condescending or something. Yeah, right. So but what is pity? When they feel sorry for you. Yeah. Is that condescending? I mean, not everyone who does it is condescending, but I that's just where my mind goes immediately. Very good. Right. So I'm going to change that answer for you a little bit. It's the way that I feel, I feel condescending to, I feel like people are condescending to me when they pity me. Does that make sense? Right. And so like, when you when people like pity you, like, there's like actually some degree of like potential vulnerability or hurt there. Is that because like, if I like if you know, if you were in an accident, and you broke your leg, and I felt pity for you, like, that's not necessarily condescending. Sometimes pity can be condescending, by the way. So I think we got to be careful about pity. But, you know, I could feel like, you know, I'm not going to be like, I'm not going to be like, I'm like, compassion, or I could feel empathy. The thing you've got to be careful about is that compassion and empathy may feel like pity to you. Yeah, that makes sense. I, you know, I think what I think I might feel so bad about when people pity me, and I feel like condescended to, because I, you know, compassion and empathies are also two emotions I have struggle with. Yep. So I can't really, I can't really, like, point it out when I see it, you know, Yep, very good. So I think like, let's think about that. So one thing is, I do think pity has an element of condescension to it, right? Because pity is like, oh, like, when I'm walking down the street, and I, you know, there's a beggar. And then like, I have like my, you know, nice clothes, and I've got my fancy new phone and all this kind of stuff. And like, oh, like this poor beggar, like, oh, like, let me like, let me pity you. Like, it's like, I'm up here, and I'm gonna, you know, I'm gonna give you, I'm the hand that's giving and you're the hand that's receiving. So sometimes with pity, there is a power dynamic with that emotion. Does that make sense? Yeah. I think the thing you've got to be careful about is if you're colorblind to compassion or empathy, if we think like, pity, compassion, and empathy are all going to kind of overlap, to some degree, right? The problem is that if I'm sending you all three signals, but you're only able to see one, then how are you going to respond? And angry? Yeah. Actually, that makes a lot of sense. Because anytime people have tried to console me, I do get angry because I just, I can't deal with those emotions. I even now I do so bad with it. If I feel something bad happens, or I feel bad, if somebody tries to make me feel better, I don't usually respond in a positive way. Yeah, that's gotta be. That makes sense now. Yeah. But how do I fix that? Well, so I think that that's where you know, just ignore so this is okay. So now I'm going to give you a playbook. Hold on one second. Let me can I have a second to give you a playbook? I just got to make it up real quick. Okay. Okay, so it starts with you recognizing this fucking guy is being condescending to me. Okay, so it actually starts because that's a signal that you can detect very easily. Right? Yeah. So like when you feel like someone is being condescending towards you, that's that should be like the, you know, the running low on gas light in your car, like that should be the signal to you. Okay, once you feel that way, if you feel like someone is being condescending to you, you need to pause for a second, and then do a little analysis. And ask yourself, you know, is this person really being condescending? If this person were trying to be compassionate? What would they do differently? If this person would were trying to be compassionate, would I be able to tell the difference? Okay. And this is where you can also kind of use like, you know, the friend example, like, if you take yourself out of the equation, if someone's, you know, dad passed away, and then like someone went to their house and said to them, like make it like a third person thing. So like, person A's dad passed away, person B shows up and says this thing to person A, are what what I consider that condescending. And this is where it's where it's hard because you really have to step out of your shoes, you have to really think about the scenario outside of your experience of it. And then, then you can kind of maybe see and it's almost like what you asked me earlier about, like, you know, how do you do that, you kind of step out of your own shoes, ask yourself, okay, like, if this person would be were being compassionate, what would they do? And if you can't come up with an answer, then like, that's kind of an interesting clue, you may not know what compassion looks like, which is, you know, I'm not trying to be condescending there. Was that was that condescending? No, I don't. Okay. But like, like you mean, I mean, you may not know, I don't know, I just don't know about that. But you know, I'd say that if you if you can't figure out how compassion and condescension would look different in this scenario, then that's a real sign that maybe they're trying to be compassionate. So step one is recognize the pity and anger, recognize the feeling that someone's being condescended, recognize that you're getting pissed. So if you're pissed, okay, why am I pissed? Is someone being condescending to me? Okay, next question is like, okay, if two people that were not me, and we're not this person, we're engaged in this behavior, would that be compassion? Or would that be condescension? Third thing is, okay, let me just make you following me so far? Yeah. Okay. So then third thing is, if this person was trying to be compassionate, would I be able to recognize that? Could I envision what that looked like? Could it actually look like what they're doing? Does that make sense? Like, what do you mean what it could look like what they're doing? So like, someone's doing it, and then they're like, oh, I'm doing it. So like, someone's doing something to you, right? That makes you feel like they're you're being they're being condescending. Yeah. Right. So let's say I say to you, oh, Paul, you poor thing, let me buy you some deodorant. Okay. Right. And so so then you can ask yourself like, okay, does buying does buy deodorant? Like, could that be a sign of compassion? Or is it necessarily condescension? Does that does that question make sense? Now? That one makes sense. Yeah. Right. So like, and with deodorant, it's like, well, decent chance that it's condescending, right? Yeah. But it's like, my dad passed away, someone got me flowers, like, even though you may feel condescended, like, people are like looking down on you. Like, I don't need flowers. Like, who the fuck do they think I am needing flowers? Like, you know, that's not really, that's not really how I feel. Like, if somebody if something bad happens, and somebody says, like, where to get me flowers? I mean, nobody in my family has died. So I don't know how I'd feel with that. But when something bad happens, you know, like, let's say there's like some drama online or something that makes me feel really bad. And then somebody like my girlfriend wants to try and make me feel better. I won't feel pissed, because I'll be like, who does she think I am, I'll feel more pissed because she's, you know, I don't know, trying to like talking in a place where she is not also feeling bad. So she is trying to give me like, I don't know, trying to make me feel better just makes me feel pissed. Because I feel like they don't I feel like she wouldn't understand how I'm feeling. So that sort of condescending feeling is how I feel. So it makes sense. Why do you call that condescension? I mean, I don't know what else to call it. So you feel like your your girlfriend like doesn't have this the stance to be compassionate towards you or like, to console you. That and also I don't like when, you know, if she's trying to console me with something, she's bringing up not just her anyone bringing up bad, like the bad memories again, like, I don't like the bad memories again, that just happened. I don't like that either. I don't like when people want to talk about something to try to make me feel better, because it brings back those negative emotions. And I don't do good at dealing with negative emotions. So I don't even want to go there. And then so it's like a multi layered thing why I get pissed. Good. I mean, it's not good that it's both but it's good. I'm really happy actually, Paul, because it sounds like you actually have a lot of insight into why you get pissed. I mean, right. Even nowadays, I still keep to myself. You know, I mean, I don't even really talk about things with my girlfriend. She tries to talk about things with me, but I just, you know, I kind of just keep to myself. I don't let her. Usually, I just don't I'm so used to keeping things myself. That I that's just what I've come accustomed to. Okay, so I'm going to give you step four, which is I think talk to the person that you feel angry at for trying to console you. And this is where you can signal some things to them, right? You can tell them explicitly, hey, I recognize you're trying to talk to me about this. But I actually find that talking about it like brings up more negative emotions. Right, just like you explained to me, like just share that with them. Have you tried doing that? No, I usually just get angry and I tell them to go away. Right. So we're gonna like, like, I know, sounds kind of weird, Paul, but we got to like retrain those neurons. Right. So that's not gonna help your relationships. It's a really bad habit. I know I just my whole life 26 years, I just have only been to myself. And that's just it, you know, and then actually, when I as a stream when I became a streamer, I definitely couldn't express myself, I did not feel comfortable expressing myself to well people on a live stream, you know, what's your understanding of why you've become so self reliant? I just have trust issues. Well said. Right. So I think the way that I would put that I think you have a lot of reasons to not let other people in. I don't know what you're referring to when you say trust issues. But what I'm hearing is a kid who was chronically misunderstood growing up. Well, when I say trust that and when I say trust issues, I mean, yeah, I just don't want to give. I don't trust anyone else with my feelings. I don't know. I just don't like, I've just had too many bad experiences where I tell someone about my feelings. And then I feel worse. They make me feel worse. Are you feeling worse now? No, I prepared myself to chat with you. So I, you know, I just I have an expectation. I have an expectation when talking to you. So I don't feel bad because I've already gave myself that expectation, right? Okay. Do you feel like you're okay. So when it comes to your girlfriend, I do want to give you some concrete feedback here to where like, I think instead of, I think it's fine to push her away, but just use this language. If that makes sense, you know, just tell her, hey, sometimes like, I recognize that you're trying to help me. But sometimes it's actually like makes things more emotionally difficult. I prefer to kind of process on my own. And you think that is that like, I mean, is that more healthy than me trying to figure out how to talk to her? Like, I would prefer if I didn't get angry, bro, that is talking to her. That's the first step to talking to her. Okay. Does that make sense? It's like, I just want to like, eventually, I want to be able to not get angry and feel so negative when people try to. Yeah, you told me I so I don't want to push them away. I just can't deal with the emotions. When, you know, I just can't deal with them. I just get so worked up, you know? Yeah, so that that actually is the first and most important step, right? Like, so if we want to figure out, like, so what I'm hearing from you, Paul, is that you and the people that you care about, you want to be able to move in the direction of being able to discuss emotional things. Right? Yeah, I want to. Yeah. Okay. So that starts out by figuring out if you want to go somewhere, you have to start by figuring out where you are. Does that make sense? Like, if we're in like, South Florida, like, that's where we got to start, like, sure, I want to be in the Pacific Northwest, like, that's where I want to go. But we got to start where we are. And so signaling to your girlfriend, I know it sounds kind of weird, but that's a way to open up the conversation, right? So you instead of just pushing her away, and like, jumping into your emotions too heavily, what's going on? I feel like I just lost you for a second. Oh, no, my microphone is flashing. I just want to make sure. So I think I know it sounds kind of weird, because it sounds like you're pushing her away. But I don't think it's actually pushing her away. I think it's actually the first step to letting her in. Because you're signaling to her, hey, this is hard for me. It's not that I mean, it's not that I don't care about you. It's not that I don't appreciate it. It's hard for me to be consoled right now. Okay. Right. And so like, like you kind of signaling to her, like what you can handle in a respectful way, where you're not saying things that are hurtful, you're not lashing out to her, that's going to start to lay the foundation for like the next step in communication. But if I tell her to go to go away, you know, because I'm not feeling good, how do I open myself back to that conversation? Because that's the hard, that's the hard part. Yeah, but you're not telling her to go away, right? You're just saying it's hard for me to talk. And then and then, Paul, you're brilliant, bro, you say exactly what you just said to me, which is that I want to be able to have this conversation with you. But I recognize there's a part of me that's pushing you away. But like, I don't want to be pushed away. I don't want to be just pushing you away. But like, I don't want to. But it's hard for me to like, sit with these negative emotions. Does that make sense? Yeah. Like you can even say something like, I feel myself pushing you away, but I don't want to. How does that sound? I mean, that's that's accurate. My only fear is that I go back to the conversation. And, you know, that I just get angry during it. So you share that as well, right? So you say that you say, I'm afraid I want to have this conversation, but I'm afraid that because it's painful, I'm going to get angry, and I don't want to get angry. And now I don't know if you've been paying attention, Paul, and I'm not trying to be condescending here. But that is you have sharing your feelings with her. That is like, literally what that is. You were doing it at that point. Does that make sense? Yeah. Right, because like, you've shared actually a lot with her at that point. You want me to recap just or? Yeah, I mean, no, no, it's fine. I got it. It's I shared a lot. But we haven't shared like, the main part of it, though. We've only shared how I feel before the conversation. Yep, good. So that's actually how you do it. So like, what you do is you start right. So like, if I'm if I'm like, let's say, let's say you have a broken arm. Okay. So if I'm a doctor, and like, there's a child with a broken arm, I don't start by touching this. I start by touching this. And then I get closer. Does this hurt? No, does this hurt? Does this hurt? Does this hurt? Does this hurt? Oh, this hurts a little bit. I'm sorry. Can I just move a little bit? Okay, that hurts. Oh, that really hurts. Oh my god. Oh, that's very painful. I'm so sorry. So you start in a safe zone. And then you slowly move towards the deep end, right? You got to start in the kiddie pool. And then like, like, as you guys talk about it, and then like, this is where she's not going to feel pushed away, because you're sharing with her. Right? And then the two of y'all are going to work together about going into the deep end. Makes sense. Yeah, I mean, I'll definitely have to try that. Because I guess I keep trying to go right into the deep end, I think so. Yep. Very took the thought right out of my mind. Right. You want to? Yeah, you want to teleport right to where you want to go, but you got to go slow. Paul. Right? Because like, if we think about it, why is it so hard for you to connect? It's because like, for like, you know, the first half of your life, or even longer than the first half of your life, like, it was hard to let people in because you didn't know how and they didn't understand you. And they like, you know, you didn't do anything wrong, but they still called you a snitch and bullied you. Like, of course, you've got trust issues. So you have to you have to give yourself the patience to build that trust up and it needs to be built up slowly. You know, you don't you don't like build up trust in the 24 hour period, right? Like trust is something it's not like, you know, it happens slowly. Yeah, makes sense. And relationships are tough. I don't know how people don't know it. Not relationships like boy, girl, but like, you know, friendships, all kinds of relationships. It's just this tough. I don't like I wish I could just just came naturally to me more like more often, but it's so hard to do. Yeah. I'm, can I share some feelings with you? Yeah. So when you say something like that, it makes me feel something like pity for you. Right? Like, I just I think it's sad. And I'm trying to avoid that feeling but I have it. I kind of like think about your life and like, you know, you know, you know, you know, like think about your life and like, you know, it sounds like you spawned on hard mode. Like you're playing the game of life on hard mode. And so I feel some degree of like, compassion towards you. How do you feel about that? When you say? Is that rub you the wrong way? I mean, it doesn't I mean, it doesn't rub me the wrong way. I mean, I maybe on medium, because I'm pretty like privileged to like live, you know, in a nice family and stuff. So I'm not I don't think like I have a hard life. But I had just, you know, when it comes to like more deeper emotional stuff, that's when it gets tough. But that's not really something I would consider like a hard life. Yeah. So let me modify what I said a little bit. You let me know how this makes you feel. Okay. So on the one hand, Paul, I respected you. I think you're a survivor. I think you've, you know, like it sounds like you had a really challenging upbringing in a lot of ways. And you actually like worked really hard to like put yourself back together, that you've grown into an adult. And like you've learned how to do things that did not come easily for you that other people take for granted. Feeling okay with that so far? Yeah. Is that fair to say for me to say that and respect for that? And at the same time, I'm also sad that like you were dealt that hand in the first place. Yeah, I mean, that's that's a I like that way better. Yeah, so it's kind of interesting because like, I can respect your triumph and also be like, man, that sucks that you were in that situation where you had to triumph in the first place. Makes sense. How does that make you feel? I like that. It makes me feel good. Yeah, so I just don't like when Yeah, I didn't like the hard mode thing because it makes me feel like I'm being in the wrong. Because there's people who have these emotional problems and their life isn't good because they, you know, like I went to that camp, bro, they had, you know, these kids were in the same boat as me, but they had their orphans or, you know, they were going, they were in jail. And like, they just had way worse lives than me. So my perspective is so wide that, yeah, I just I felt kind of like I was in the wrong when you said hard mode. Yeah, I can understand that. Can I disagree with you there a little bit? Can I share my experience? Yeah, so I've worked with people who are very privileged and very wealthy. I've worked in jails. I've worked with kids, you know, I've worked at places where kids run away on a routine basis. Let's just put it that way. And what I've come to realize is that no amount of privilege protects you from suffering. That at the end of the day, and Buddha, the Buddha, the guy who founded Buddhism, you know, he sort of said this, and he said that, like, ultimately, like suffering is a part of the human condition. And it's been really bizarre, because I've worked with people who are suicidal and like in jail, and are going to be there for the next 40 years. And I've worked with people who just got promoted to be CEO of a, you know, tech startup out of MIT, who are also suicidal. And when I really sit with them, both of them, I don't think that, you know, does one have more privilege? Absolutely. Does one have certain benefits that they should be grateful for? Absolutely. Is one's life easier? Absolutely. And at the same time, in my experience, suffering and difficulty are not the same thing. It's kind of weird. It's just my experience. That's a good way to put it. I like that. Do you think other people see it that way? Because I felt like I felt like the bad guy there for a second because I felt like I was in the wrong for a second because of how other people would perceive it, who aren't as well put as you, you know, like you, you can understand things probably a little bit better than the average person. Yeah, so I think that that's a problem that people we seem to be gatekeeping suffering more and more and more. Right? We allow some people to suffer and then we get into this like weird like, contest about who's the most, who's allowed to suffer the most. It's weird. You know, I like it's like at the end of the day, Paul, like, you have probably the single worst case of school bullying that I've ever heard. This whole thing with like pimp in the bathroom, like I've heard a lot of cases of bullying like by like, you know, people like that's the worst. I mean, it's like, like, it's humiliating. It's like terrifying. You know, like, that's, that's so psychologically like, the bizarre thing, and what's even like worse is like, it actually doesn't sound like it was that traumatic for you. I mean, it was pretty, it was pretty bad. If I still remember, I mean, I understand it was pretty bad. But just hearing the way you talk about it, it sounds like in the grand scheme of things, it was maybe one of the worst things that happened to you. But your baseline was like pretty shit. You know, you know, it's crazy that yeah, you know, that that was pretty traumatic. But compared to I mean, on nowadays, it's like, I don't know, like, I've been through so much worse as a streamer than my childhood, bro, that yeah, getting pretend raped is almost like nothing. Like, you know what I mean? And that's fucking terrible to say, but it's it's, that's my scale is so skewed, a fucked up shit. I've been through so much fucked up shit. Yep, absolutely, man. And so this is where I think at the end of the day, comparing suffering, I think is a waste of everyone's time. It's not that anyone deserves to suffer more than you are. I think the right move is to like, you know, stuff sucked for you, it sucked for you. And also, like, if things are worse for other people, like have compassion for them and try to help them. But like, they, it doesn't matter whether my life was good, or my life is bad, I should still have compassion for someone whose whose life is like sucks. Right? Does that make sense? And I don't know why is like, societally, we've started entangling those two. Like, if my life is bad, then I, it's weird, it's like, I don't need to give compassion to others. And if my life is good, then I don't deserve to have compassion myself. It's really weird. I just don't think it makes any sense. I think, you know, someone's life can be terrible, and you should be compassionate towards them, irrespective of how bad your life is. Now, you may not be able to do a whole lot, right? Like if you if you're, you know, if you're dealing with trauma or abuse, or you've got diagnosed with cancer, and you may not have a whole lot of bandwidth to give, that's completely separate. But in terms of I don't think it's, you know, I mean, it sounds like Paul, you've had some things that you should be grateful for. Like you had parents that loved you a lot and took out a loan to try to help their son get on the right track. So should you be grateful for that? Absolutely. But did your life suck in some ways? Absolutely. And those two don't have to be mutually exclusive. Okay. Yeah, I just always I don't know, I just always feel weird, like talking about, like, like how hard some parts of my life have been, because I just feel like, obviously, I've got a lot of privilege. And I don't want to overstep my boundary here of what you know, I know, it's like weird, but I just I put no, it's, I just I don't know, I just want to make sure I'm not putting myself in a situation where people are going to look at me poorly. In that sense, at least, I don't know. Yeah, so I, I don't know, man, I think that, you know, you got to be a little bit careful about your appearance, but I don't. Yeah, I mean, I think that if this is your authentic experience, then that's your authentic experience, like it happened to you. And if people think that you're like, you know, pity farming, you know, I don't get that sense from you. I don't you know, I think you're just I think it just sounds like very authentic to me. Like, yeah, the whole pity, like, thing, actually, I never had an issue with with pity, as much at least until I started streaming. The streaming the when I first started streaming, obviously, I was very sheltered. So that it was everything, bro. And I learned a lot of shit from just viewers interacting with me. And a lot of it has been negative. Learning and not positive learning, you know, like, learn to not, you know, feel bad for myself and shit, which is so kind of Paul, I just want to pause for a second. So we've been, you know, going at this for about an hour and a half. How are you feeling? I mean, I feel good. I like getting the stuff off my chest. I don't know if I'm doing good at it or not. I'm sorry if I'm if I'm not, but there's pre apology.exe. Yeah, I just want to make sure that I'm not like, just dragging things on or something. No, I think that I've I think today's so far, everything we've talked about has been very productive. The only reason I paused is because I'm recognizing that we haven't even touched streaming yet. Yeah, it's, I mean, I keep it short, or I can give you the whole thing. It's up to you. Well, so that's where where I'm actually wondering, you know, I think I actually want the whole thing. Because I think that's, you know, I'm not interested in the abbreviated version. It's just, I mean, I imagine that'll be long. So, you know, are you are you good for going for like another hour? Yeah, I'm good. So tell me about streaming. Okay, I mean, I don't even know where to begin, dude. It's such a Alright, I mean, I guess when I first got into streaming, I mean, I'm just gonna stick to like the whole mental health and like how I feel part of streaming more so than like, how I became a streamer shit, because people, you know, know that shit. So I don't. Can you tell me a little bit about it? Yeah, well, I became a streamer. I was playing runescape, which is, you know, this game I played a lot for like ever since I was young. It was a game always played. So I became a streamer, I started streaming runescape. And I made YouTube videos with it. And I you know, it was just fun. I didn't take it serious. I should just like smoke weed after work, and then go live, make videos and like just troll a little bit on runescape, you know, I'd have like really good armor and like a really bad situation and die and then I'd be like, Oh, I fucking died. And it was just funny. And, you know, people liked it. I started getting a following from that. And, you know, it was all going pretty well for, you know, the first like three months. I think I started in like, August 2015. Wow. And yeah, I mean, that's how streaming started. Then IRL came out. And I actually started to move my content to IRL or like Pokemon Go is what it was back then. On Twitch, because you couldn't do IRL and Twitch back then. But and the viewers and everyone really loved it. I really liked it because you know, it's fucking crazy. Because I was so isolated and sheltered growing up. And then streamed for you know, the first few months runescape and I started to like get out of my shell a little bit. And I started to, you know, express my my, you know, my class clown humor on stream. And it really felt like it just was right. It felt like it all led up to this. And then when IRL or like Pokemon Go came out. I really enjoyed like, like I would never talk to I would have never been able to talk to people without the stream, giving me that validation. And I think that really helped me. I when Pokemon Go came out the first day I streamed it, I had people in my chat, you know, giving me good validation every time I would talk to someone. And it made me feel comfortable with talking to people for like the first time ever. Can you tell me what you mean by validation and what they said that made you feel comfortable? Well, you know, usually, I would be awkward, you know, with how I talk to people growing up. And, you know, I could just tell that when I talk to people, the conversations are kind of like weird and don't go anywhere or they judging me a little bit, maybe. But when I would stream, and you know, I would talk to people doing IRL, my chat would just give me they just be like, oh, that was funny. You're, you know, hilarious. You're, you know, that was good. You know, and I wasn't even trying to really be funny. I was just talking to people. But I guess my quirky, my quirkiness just kind of like translated well to the stream. So, you know, made me feel good. So even if the interaction I just had was kind of awkward, this the stream made me feel good. And I just, you know, was able to do it more and more until I got more comfortable with actually talking to people. And then I, you know, but and you know, that I've learned how to actually have decent conversations, because of the streams validation, helping me push myself, right, the very first IRL stream I did, dude, I was so nervous, I knew I wanted to do it, because I'm like, alright, this is gonna get a lot of viewers, and it's gonna be super hype, because it's a new category. And I think it'll be fun. And yeah, I just my heart's beating so fast. I was so nervous, because I never really talked to people. And then all of a sudden, that we went so well the first stream, like I was so happy, dude, that I was able to talk to people and not feel judged. Like I didn't really care if the people in real life are judging me. I only cared about the strength, like judging me because that was who I was going out for anyways, right. So it was very exciting for me when I first did that IRL stream, because I had never done like anything like that before. Like talking to people. And so sounds great. What? Where's the? It sounds like things went downhill at some point. Yeah, I mean, obviously, that so those feel good feelings, you know, whatever. So I started doing IRL like every day. And I started to, you know, and it was going well, and it was going well for for for, you know, a little bit. And before I get to the other parts, let me just say, there was this one stream I did on Twitch that didn't go so like there wasn't it wasn't that like I went I think I tried gaming. So I did IRL for like a week straight, and then went back to gaming. And then the viewers didn't like it. So I started crying on stream, and got very emotional, because all I was trying to do was just be accepted by my chat, which there's a video of that stream. But it's it's it was just like a two minute stream of me just crying and saying, you know, how I felt. And I you know, people gave me good feedback with in, you know, hearts and stuff. And I felt good. And I felt comfortable with expressing myself actually, in, you know, at that moment, or like afterward, or whatever, in that moment, I wasn't comfortable, but I did it, I was in a reading chat. But afterward, when I read the chat, I felt more comfortable, I felt much better. Which and I bring that up now, because later on, I will tell you why I decided to stop opening myself up to my stream. So yeah, but then, so let's so you know, a couple months go by, going well, IRL stuff, gaming stuff, whatever. You know, I got banned on Twitch, I got swatted on an airplane. Not sure if you're familiar with what happened. So I was, you know, I did a stream at an airport, waiting for a plane to go to Dreamhack. And, you know, and I was very, what's the word like, irresponsible with my camera pointing, and I was just because back in early 2017, getting swatted and like having viewers know where you are, wasn't really like an issue. It was like IRL was so new. It was not it wasn't really an issue. And I had only ever been swatted one time before that. Like way, like way before the plane thing and was at my house and you know, I mean, okay, whatever that it wasn't like a normal thing. So when I streamed at the airport, I streamed that airports multiple times as well. I didn't think it was an issue. But you know, obviously, when I ended the stream, some viewer called the police and said I had a bomb or whatever. And you know, I got swatted on the airplane when it landed, like the cops came in and they like questioned me and stuff. And you know, obviously, went on the news and got banned on Twitch, which way would you get banned on Twitch if someone's swatted? I'm confused. Well, I had been banned a few times before. So I got banned four times on Twitch for because for you know, because I had TTS on right on my streams. And sometimes by Texas Beach. So I got banned four times for Texas Beach because you know, they people get around filters and you know, offensive things would come through and I wouldn't skip it in time. So I got banned four times for that. And then I got banned for accidentally leaking someone's phone number. Like I asked for someone's like I asked for a girl's phone number, I forgot to leak the fucking microphone. So I got banned for that. So I got banned for getting swatted on the plane because obviously I had already a history like five bands before that. And I think Twitch, you know, saw it as bad PR. They saw my chat was a little I mean, I'm not gonna cookie cutter it. My chat was pretty fucking like, ridiculous. You know what I mean? Like they were spammy as hell. They could be toxic. They could be like, you know, pretty fucking bad. So I think Twitch just was like just, you know, they just banned me because I and I will say I was pretty irresponsible with the way I was streaming. I was like showing what flight I was going on and stuff. With you know, in hindsight, it's easy to say, oh, that was stupid. But in the moment, like I said, getting swatted wasn't really a normal thing. So I didn't even think that was gonna happen. So yeah, I got banned for obviously, I'm gonna assume. I don't really, I don't really know. But I think it's because I was being irresponsible with showing where I was and stuff. So let me ask you a quick question, Paul. What's your understanding? I mean, so you were saying that your community, it seems like, you know, they were trolls. Yeah, you know. What's your understanding of how your community got to be that way? I didn't moderate my chat. I mean, that's as simple as that, you know, I enjoyed the validation that my viewers are giving me. You know, I've never had anything like this before. So I was very afraid to lose it. So I and what kinds of things would they validate? I mean, you know, if I was funny on stream, if I was, you know, just saying jokes, and, you know, obviously, I would say offensive jokes, too. Back when I was in my early 20s, offensive humor and like shock humor was like, I don't know, I found it funny. I mean, you know, I'm a I've heard now, obviously, but I'm not gonna like lie. I found it funny. So I would do it, you know, and I'd say shocking things and offensive things. And the chat found it funny. And you know, and so it's kind of like the class clown humor, right? You say something in class, it's like kind of shocking. The teacher would get mad. I mean, it kind of just carried over, I guess. But, but the viewers, yeah, they validated it and they they enjoyed it. So, you know, I was so afraid to lose anybody. I didn't want to lose a single viewer, because I just felt so good that I finally had people that liked me. So I didn't ban or moderate anything. Which is a mistake. How do you understand why you felt so good? Why were you so afraid to lose a single viewer? I'll explain why I felt so good. Yeah, like, like help me understand why you were afraid to ban a single viewer. I just didn't. I was just afraid of like people not liking me anymore and just going away and then I'd be alone again. I really didn't like being alone. And I really like for the first time saw what it's like to be liked and not be alone. And you know, I just wanted to cherish that. Because it was very valuable to me. And I was, you know, dude, I was 21, 22, when I first I was 21. No, I was 20 when I first started streaming, 21 when I really blew up. So I was young and just no life experience, or anything. I just didn't know that, you know, surrounding myself with bad validation was even a thing. What do you mean by bad validation? I just you know, I mean, so you there's, there's, I mean, how do I explain it? There's Okay, so you have if I have a viewer in the chat who's saying stupid things that like saying, making fun of me or something or laughing when I do something stupid, laughing at me more than with me. That's like bad validation, because he's still in my chat. And he's still laughing, but he's not laughing for the good read for good reasons. And I couldn't really differentiate the difference there between good and bad validation. So I just kept everyone because I didn't want to lose anyone because I thought they cared about me. I thought they were there for me. But so I you know, I was just very afraid to moderate anything. So I'm kind of hearing a couple things. Can I just repeat back to you and just make sure I'm on the same page? So you know, we heard a lot about your early life. Excuse me, one second. Hmm. So we heard a lot about your early life and and you know, it sounds like you were not very well understood sounds like you were pretty alone in a lot of ways. And then here comes Twitch to the rescue, which it does so many times. And so you know, there's there's a sense of community, there's a sense of connection, you get to be the class clown again. And then like Twitch loves that right? Like, we love class clowns. And so I'm getting the sense that you started to cultivate a particularly, you know, risk, like, kind of risque attitude telling kind of offensive jokes, which you thought were funny, like people like to because, you know, you were the guy who wouldn't be so PC started to cultivate a particular kind of community that would repeatedly say inappropriate things in text to speech. Maybe you weren't so keen on moderating them because you really found that like, it's almost like you become kind of I use this word a little bit carefully, but almost dependent on the validation. I mean, I was hearing you kind of say that, you know, you would do things that are that their validation would allow you to do things that that Paul couldn't do. And I specie and became someone different from Paul. Paul had trouble talking to people. But like I specie and was like, totally cool to talk to people like had friends like, is that fair? Or or is that kind of? I mean, I don't want to, I don't think it's fair to take the blame off of me and put it onto my persona. But yes, you're right. But I just want to make sure you like I just want you to know that I'm that doesn't take the blame away from me personally. What is what I said? Does that assign the blame somewhere? Well, I mean, no, I don't think so. But I'm just so used to. I'm just so used to getting judged man. About like, how I how I'm supposed to feel and shit. I just feel like I have to just say that I don't know. Okay. What would happen if you didn't say that? I just feel like people would say that I'm just, you know, deflecting my responsibilities or something. I don't know. I don't think so. But I just thought I would say that to see how well your reaction would be, I suppose. I mean, so here's what I Paul, if we're going to talk about blame, I think you and Twitch chat, so this this, I think you and Twitch chat, so this, this, I mean, I, you know, there's a part of me that loves it, too. But I think a lot of times, their marriage is made in hell. And, and that's what this sounds like to me, it sounds like you were the class clown, you were also a champion of sorts, and they loved you for it. And you love to be loved for it. And I'm kind of hearing, you know, you didn't moderate things, but at the same time, you're not the one that was, you know, making the text to speech donations, I think you just cultivated a particular kind of culture. And everyone was sort of happy with that. What do you think about that? Yeah, I mean, yeah, my humor was edgy. And my chat, you know, therefore got edgy. And yeah, I mean, that was, yeah, essentially, yes. Yeah, I mean, do you feel blamed enough by what I said? Is that fair in terms of judgment? Yeah, that's that's fair. I mean, I think this really sounds to me like a situation where, you know, there was a lot of like cultivation or evolution of something it started in one place. And then it got like a little bit worse and a little bit worse and a little bit worse and a little bit worse. I never you know, I never I never wanted it to be like, I never wanted to make a fucking edgy sort of like thing. But, you know, obviously, I just didn't know what the fuck I do might I didn't know what I was doing my channel. Blue I went from 400 viewers. I'll say I went from 100 viewers to 20,000 in like two months or like, I mean, overnight, essentially, dude. I mean, it was literally overnight and I had no guidance. It was I'm just by myself. And I had to just figure everything else everything out on my own. And I'm just like the sheltered kid. So it was tough, dude. It was not easy. And I just, you know, fell into the wrong sort of environment. Yeah, I've noticed Paul that when people blow up, it's psychologically very difficult. And and you know, there's a lot of good that comes with it, but also like a lot of danger that comes with blowing up. So I've heard that story again, a lot of times it manifests as imposter syndrome to where people like I don't understand why, you know, these 1900 19,900 people like where they came from. Because I was used to that original 100. But anyway, so it sounds like you got banned for to twitch. I got banned for twitch for you know, having this like cultivating like just a bad community. I'm quite sure the plane thing was just like icing on the cake. So and then I went over to YouTube. I know I was very upset when this happened, obviously, because I didn't know what the fuck to do, bro. I was so scared of being alone again, going back to being this just sheltered misunderstood person. So I you know, I made a video, and I said I'm gonna be streaming on YouTube, criticized twitch and in there, and how they banned me, which now looking at it, I get where they were coming from. So I, you know, I took that video down because that's not fair criticism, in my opinion that I had on them, but started streaming on YouTube. And you know, I said this one thing that was very like just the worst mistake of my life, honestly, because if you think it's bad hasn't even bro YouTube, my YouTube career, that's when streaming got ridiculous, like in terms of how bad it really got. I said this one thing, and it really just it's it's I should have never said it, I literally said, Alright, I want you guys to control my life. I said that to my viewers. And that was the worst fucking mistake of my life, dude. Because that, that's not good. That because I realized now viewers don't have your best intention. And, you know, you're just entertainment, and or like a very un or like a parasocial relationship to a lot of viewers, and like some unhealthy way. And I learned that I learned all that shit the hard way, man. So I had this Reddit that had, you know, that was very popular, and had, you know, 100,000 members on it. And that Reddit was who I was talking to the my Reddit would control my life, essentially, is what I told them. And anything that gets upvoted to the top, I would do. And, you know, they, that's it. You know, I was so afraid of losing these people that I just gave them full power, so they wouldn't go anywhere. And yeah, so then the next year or so, I mean, it just got, it just got real bad. The viewers were very, you know, even now, I have a hard time talking about this, because it's it's, I just feel like a lot of like, it's hard to know. If I like if I if what I'm saying is even accurate or not, not accurate in the in what happened, but accurate in how I feel, like I feel like now in hindsight that I was being gaslighted by my Reddit, and that sounds fucking insane. But I think I was because they would upvote something, I would do it. And then they would tell me they would upload another post saying I'm a fucking asshole for doing that. And then I should apologize to them. And then I would apologize. And I cry on stream and say I'm sorry. And then it'd be like, not good enough. Does that make sense? Like it just got it got very bad, bro, where like the viewers, some a lot of the viewers got very entitled. And they started to and I just only did I did my best to just try and make everyone happy. But I think a lot of viewers took advantage of that. And it made me feel really bad. And it really fucked in my head for a long time. And that was a huge mistake. I should have never given you know, my viewers such power over me. What what made what were what were you? Do you remember what you were thinking and feeling when you sort of put that offer out there that they get to control your life? I was just scared. That was the first stream on YouTube that I did. I was just scared. I didn't want to lose, you know, this this like magical gift that I was given. Because it was I do it. I was alone my entire life. And this was like something. This is like a dream come true, you know, like people like me. People like want to see me. Like I've never had that before. So I just was so worried about it that I was just like, I'm just going to give them everything I'm going to give them my literally, the key to my heart everything. You know, and that was that was bad. And and so the reason you were giving them everything is everything is because you had you were living a life that, you know, I'm just trying to understand for a second. You know, it's it's like when I can envision that when you were growing up, there was like your life and they were like normal lives, right? Like people had friends and people were liked and people were appreciated. And then there was Paul, who is in the special school and and you know, taken to doctors and put on Zoloft and put on ADHD medicine. There's the Paul that we were kind of saying like, what do we do with you? And then suddenly, like, Twitch and YouTube, you were kind of you did this for a while on Twitch, and then you were afraid of losing everyone. And so you kind of gave them power over your life, anything to not have them leave. Is that fair to say? Yeah. Because when I mean, when I got banned on Twitch, no YouTube live streaming wasn't a thing, really. Like I was. I don't even know who else is streaming on YouTube. I think. Yeah, I have no idea. I think I remember like, just nobody was streaming on everyone who ever got banned on Twitch. Their career was done for streaming. So I was so scared of yeah, of being like just back to being alone. So yeah, I did like I went to the extremes on YouTube. So I could keep these people and so they don't leave and go back to Twitch and like leave and you know, whatever. I'm alone. So yeah, I gave them full power. And so when they would post something on Reddit, how would you feel? Like what would they ask you to do? I mean, it would just be like content ideas and stuff. But and I would feel fine for I mean, for that, obviously. But when they would when the Reddit would upvote stuff that would make me feel bad when it when I didn't do anything that like there was this one such I mean, I'm not bringing I'm not going to say names, but there was this one situation where with two girls, and one of them I went on a date for the stream. I didn't really want to date them. I just went on a date with them for the stream for content, because my Reddit upvoted it and said I should do that. But I didn't really want to. And I actually had this other girl that I was friends with that I liked, and wanted to actually, you know, pursue her instead. But you know, and and I went on so I did the date with the with the stream girl. And the viewers found, you know, found out that I actually was pursuing this other girl, you know, because like off stream because you know, and then but and they, they they were so upset by it. They didn't, you know, to me, the stream date the date on stream was just content to me. But to the viewers, it was like they're watching me actually date someone. And they were upset. And they they were like, oh, he's gonna be he's like cheating on her. He's like, he's such a piece of shit. He's fucking this and that. And I'm just like, oh, fuck. And because I said I gave you know, the viewers control my life. So I ended up going live that night, like crying. And I was just like, I'm so sorry. I you know, I didn't mean to do this. Please forgive me. And I ended up putting myself in a situation where I temporarily tried to date this stream girl that I didn't even like for the viewers, you know, because they told me to. And that was a very awkward situation to be in. And I'm just it's just kind of I'm just trying to like put it all together. So I'm like, stuttering a little bit. But well, yeah, Paul, I'm so this may sound like a silly question. But, you know, why did you have to do that? I, I don't know, I just felt like they were gonna leave and I was gonna be alone again. So I put my so I did that, you know, I told my viewers that they would control my life. So that's what it is. That's what happened. And that was the worst mistake ever. Because if I ever wanted to do anything that I wanted to do, I couldn't. And if I ever tried, they would, you know, shit on me. In my chat on Reddit, they would make me feel so bad. They would, they would, you know, they would just make me you know, say I'm a scumbag and all this shit. And to them, it's means but to me, you know, these are my feelings, my feelings aren't memes. I couldn't say that though, I could never express myself to my viewers. And I'll tell you why when I went live apologizing for you know, pursuing the wrong girl that the stream didn't tell me to. They were just they just they just use it against me. They use my feelings against me and they would repost the picture of me crying over and over with like captions that they thought were funny. And but to me, like really hurt me. And it really like upset me. And it really and unfortunately, I didn't know how to deal with these with this situation and these emotions. So I just totally started throwing everyone under the bus. Like, you know, the girls that I was pursuing, the girls pursuing, and the girl that I was dated on stream, I just literally throwing them under the bus. So I was pursuing this girl that I liked right. And since the stream that it want me to I went live and apologize for pursuing her, which was bad, because obviously it would make her feel bad too. And it would make my viewers lash out at her. So that was the wrong move on my behalf. I should have taken responsibility and just been like, No, I like this other person. And I you know, I shouldn't have played pretend with my stream. But like I said, they I gave them control of my life and I would do everything. So yeah, so that's how that situation went. So I after I was like, alright, crying on stream, letting out my emotions to my viewers, bad move, they're gonna just use it against me. And you know, post photos and whatever, it make me feel bad. So I stopped doing that. That's why I keep saying, I don't like to express myself with the like on streams typically, because even now, it's like kind of hard for me to say this, because I have so so engraved in my head that somebody is going to use it against me. That is it's hard, you know. I mean, I think you've learned that lesson. Yeah, I mean, I have but so it didn't end. I also let viewers come stream sniping me in real life. You know, stream sniping means Yeah, I thought that was but when you're competing in a game, right? And they're watching your stream. But this it also goes to real life as well. So I'm doing a short an IRL stream and they would, you know, viewer would come up to me in person and, you know, say hi to me. And that's fine. I enjoyed that I enjoy meeting the viewers saying hi to them. That's great. What I didn't enjoy was viewers coming to my house and spying on me through my window and recording my conversations in private and posting them on Reddit and things like that. But I couldn't say that. Because if I ever tried to say, Oh, I don't I don't like you doing this, don't do it. Of course, my viewers would be upset that I'm defying them. So, you know, I would never say anything like that. But yeah, my boundaries. There was no boundary. viewers would I would leave my door unlocked. And I would let viewers walk in my house as I'm sleeping and I'd wake up and there'd be seven people sitting on my couch that I have no idea who they are. And then they fucking cheer and be like, Yeah, he's awake. And, you know, I mean, it would kind of make me feel a little, you know, weird, obviously, I'd be like, I don't know if I like this. But I just I just rolled with it, you know. Wow. Why wouldn't you lock your door? Oh, no, I just was so I when I when I said that I was gonna let the viewers control my life, I meant it, dude. I don't want you I don't want you to underestimate how much fear I had inside of me. I was like, Oh, I don't want you to underestimate how much fear I had inside of me. When I got banned, bro. And I wanted to not lose anything and be alone again. So I went to the absolute extreme to make sure I stood out enough that viewers weren't going to leave me. So it's interesting, Paul, because usually when I think you know, really extreme circumstances, a lot of people will talk about negative emotions. Like I did it because I was afraid. But sometimes there's actually like, other reasons, right? There can actually be like positive things. So like, when I think about, for example, people who stay in abusive relationships, which it sounds weird, but it sounds like you were in an abusive relationship with your viewers. I mean, because it's what you're describing. So like, if you weren't if you were using if you replace the word viewers or Reddit, with like, you know, someone's name, and you just told this story, like, you know, like, you know, the weird, the weird thing is, the viewers didn't hate me. They liked me. Yeah, so I don't think that's weird. So this is kind of what I was saying is, is that like, you know, a lot of times when you talk to people in abusive relationships, they'll talk about like, fear is the reason they stay in the relationship. But a lot of times, actually, the more I've really come to understand abusive relationships, like oftentimes, actually, there's something even more powerful than fear, which is some kind of other driver, like sometimes love causes people to stay in an abusive relationship, like, you know, the hope that this person will change will cause them to stay in a relationship, the fact that they love this person, the fact that they built a life with them, you know, I've seen abusive relationships that will last for 40 years. And when we really think about why does someone stay in that relationship, it's not out of fear. I mean, sure, fear is a big part of it. But it can actually I think that things that really get people stuck are oftentimes positive emotions or like, you know, some kind of positive value. Do you think you were getting something out of this? Yeah, I mean, of course, you know, I got a lot of viewers, you know, made money. Of course, I got something out of it. I just went about I just think I dropped my boundaries way too much. Because in the end, like, it's self destructive, you know, and then they come there comes a certain point where you can't keep up anymore, man. Like I had a certain point, I couldn't keep up with the with what my viewers wanted. And then they want I mean, okay, I mean, this is gonna be really tough to talk about. And I really don't like talking about it, because people like to make memes about it. But I'll, you know, I'll talk about it. You don't have to talk about it. Well, I but I will though, because they use back back. I wonder if you're making the same mistake now that you were back then, which is like, if there's a boundary, maybe you should just respect that boundary instead of sacrificing yourself for the sake of answering my question. What do you think about that? I mean, I'm very curious. But like, that's my curiosity, right? Because it's like, I mean, I wouldn't say anything that I'm uncomfortable with. I am comfortable with talking to you about this stuff now, because it's all of that stuff's in the past. I'm talking about this from like a past tense sort of thing. Okay. Like in the past, talking about this would would have been like really tough. And it's still tough now, but I'm not afraid to talk about it anymore. Before I would have been afraid to talk about it. So let me ask you explicitly before we continue. Do you feel like talking about this would be lowering your boundary or violating an internal boundary that you want to hold for the sake of the interview or the content or whatever? Like, you know, because I don't want to fall into that same pattern. No, because I'm not gonna like no names or anything. Like, I'm not gonna get 100% detail, just what I'm comfortable with. But so my ex girlfriend, I you know, I, you know, I liked her, right? And the stream didn't like her. I don't know if you've ever seen these sort of relationships before. But so for the first six months or so of dating this girl, my viewers would just shit on me constantly for six months, nonstop shit on me, shit on her shit on anything I did everyone around her because they didn't like her. That's not who they wanted me to date. That's who I wanted to date. But that's not who they wanted me to date. So but and this was the first time I've defied I defied my viewers, I dated this this girl. And I didn't care what the viewer said. And that caused my life to be a living fucking hell for six or seven months. How so? And what's that? How so? I mean, the viewers would, you know, I mean, they would just yeah, like the chat, the dislikes, the Reddit, everything, they would just say, Fuck you ice, your fucking piece of shit. You're dating this person. This person's fucking awful. Fuck, fuck you fuck that. Like, they just didn't like who I was dating. So they lashed out at me constantly, which made all my streams awful, because I'm not going to be able to be happy and positive on stream, if I'm getting my whole chat shitting on me, and my whole community shitting on me. So it'd be a constant battle between me and my community of me defending myself. And if I want to date this person, I can date this person and my chat saying fuck you, you can't date this fucking person. It was just a bad toxic situation and environment that I was in. So instead of and I tried really hard to hold my my own and hold my gut for seven months, I just couldn't take it anymore. So what I ended up doing was hiding the relationship from my viewers. And this is where it got really bad, dude. Because now I'm living a fucking like a second life. I have my I'm like my stream life, where my viewers think I'm single. And then I have my actual life where I'm going and I'm seeing this this girl. And I lives in constant fear of getting spotted in public with with her of just whatever you know, so that relationship ended up going really, really bad and turning very bad because of because of me. You know, it's not her fault. It's because of me, I literally was afraid to leave the house with her. So it ended up turning into a very just not a good relationship, dude. Very. I started treating her poorly. Because I was, you know, just not like poorly as in calling her names and stuff. I treat her poorly as in, if we're gonna leave the house, you have to put a hood on and like a mask and shit. Like it's just, I was just scared, bro. And it's just wasn't good. And what and then my viewers eventually found out that I was dating her. And let me tell you, that was just awful. It was I mean, she got completely harassed. I got completely harassed. And I made such a dumb fucking mistake of just completely just I mean, I like threw under the bus, dude. I'm like, Oh, I'm not dating her. Because I didn't know what to do. And I was so upset and so like, worried about just losing the viewers and being alone again. I just, you know, I just did really, really made some really bad mistakes. I you know, and I lost her respect, I lost the viewers respect, I lost everyone's fucking respect. You know, the viewers were upset because I was hiding this relationship for like seven months. My ex girlfriend obviously, you know, thought it was fucking bullshit and unfair to her, which it clearly was. And I was just, yeah, bad, bad moves all around. And then after that, of course, it just was never the same. My viewers just treated me like shit and had no respect for me for so long. And until my read until I close my reddit. What do you think about that? I mean, I made a mistake, you know, I made mistakes, I should have never dropped the boundary boundaries between me and my viewers. It was it only led to bad things. Nothing good came from it. Because in hindsight, think the viewers would have still watched me with the boundaries. I didn't need to drop those boundaries. I just did because I was scared. Like I cultivated this abusive relationship between me and my viewers. And I need and that's not what I meant to do. I was just trying to grow our bond. By doing that, I'll be the only streamer to let the viewers come into his house and whatever. But the it got toxic because the viewers wanted full control. And they they wanted you know, and I can't I'm not a robot. I live my own life too. Well, I can I can kind of see it's it's really interesting to hear you because you know how you were saying that that we were talking about apology.exe. And and how you because you do explicitly own up to a lot of this you say, you know, it was my fault, my mistake. I did this, I did this, I cultivated this abusive relationship. You know, it's kind of interesting because I can see what you're saying. It's almost like a this too has been kind of an evolution of you being judged over and over and over again. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, I'm just I think we're this like, where it comes from me like constantly trying to own up to stuff is the Reddit would always say I'm not owning up to anything. And now this is kind of interesting because I'm beginning to understand I think why they think you don't own up to things. This is gonna sound kind of weird. Because even as I hear you explain things, there's a part of me that feels some degree of doubt. And I was really surprised by that. What do you mean? Well, so like, there's something actually, I know it sounds kind of weird, dude. So I'm just gonna be straight. There's something about what you're saying that feels very BS like to me. Okay. And then I got really confused because I was like, he's clearly owning up to things. He's clearly taking responsibility for it. He recognizes he makes mistakes. He's gotten he's become very insightful. So why is my BS meter going off a little bit? Does that make sense? It does. And and so I want to share something with you. And I wonder if actually if this has something to do with, you know, whether you have aspirators or not, and sort of the way that you've learned to apologize. Because I do think that there are a couple of things that are kind of interesting about your apologies. One is that you tend to own up to something. And then you say because and then you cite a negative emotion that was controlling you. So you're like, I cultivated this abusive relationship because I was afraid. Does that makes does that construction make sense? Yeah, 100% owning a mistake. Because negative emotion. And and I think you've got to be careful about that. Because while I can completely understand that that's true. I think if I say, Oh, yeah, you know, I, I hit my dog because I was angry. And so it's like, yeah, that can be true. But when you sort of like, cite a negative emotion is controlling you. I think there's a sense of like, absolving yourself of responsibility there. It's not you. It was the fear that made you do it. The fear made me do it. The fear made me do it. The fear made me do it. And I can understand that 100% because I think that's actually how human beings work. But I'm just sort of sharing that with you. Because I think that that that may, you know, is it you or is it the fear? Like, what's really responsible here? What do you think? I mean, yeah, the fear comes from me. So when I say fear, I just, you know, that's like, that's me. Like, I'm the fear, you know? Well, so yeah, the real what's your understanding of why I'm sharing this with you? I mean, you're saying that I'm just bad at apologies. Honestly, that I'm glad that that's the way that you interpreted it. Because what I was afraid of is that you would interpret what I was saying is like, I'm calling BS. I don't think you're bad at apologies. I think that you have a particular way of apologizing, which I was trying to figure out, like, why do people judge you so harshly? Like, what's going on there? Because I think that's a little bit of a two way relationship as well. You know, because clearly, like you're owning up to what you've done, right? Like, I'm not getting the sense that you're, you know, in denial or anything. But so that then the question becomes, if you're not in denial, then then what, you know, why do people react to you this way? And even more shockingly, why do I feel like reacting to you in that way? Right? It's like, what the? Yeah, because the guy's like, clearly, like, he's like, you know, I threw people under the bus, like, I shouldn't have done this, like, I lowered my boundaries. That was a mistake. Like, I was afraid of losing. It sounds like very insightful. You know, it sounds like you've you've kind of paid attention a lot. You've done a lot of reflection. I would I? How would I apologize without saying it's the negative emotions? Because I mean, I didn't do it for no reason. Yeah, so that's that's a good question. So so I mean, so let me explain something to you. Like, like, like, what are you sorry for something? I mean, I'm sorry for the, you know, the people I threw under the bus. Yeah, but I'm not really sorry for the cultivation of that, you know, of the toxic community that I've that I made because I'm past that now. And it was affecting me the most. Who am I going to apologize to myself? I mean, I guess I it's not the toxic community that made me like throw people under the bus. So I'm not going to apologize for that in particular. I just apologize. Like, it's my own actions that did that. Because I was going through so much intense things. And there, I said the because again, but you see that you're doing great until you said the because so if I think I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, I think in a weird way, like you not apologizing for a piece of it felt very authentic to me. You know, like, because because you know, and this is subtle, but like, you say I made a mistake. I haven't heard you say I'm sorry. Right. So I think that's the other thing that people may be sniffing out is BS and part of the reason that you get judged. Because if you're not sorry for something, Paul, I think you should just own up to it. And that felt authentic. Like I'm with you 100%. If you're like, I screwed up, but I don't regret it for for a minute. The only thing that I regret is that while I was screwing up, I threw some people under the bus and that wasn't fair to them. That sounds very authentic. That doesn't set off my BS meter. But when you say I made a mistake, I made a mistake. Now I'm sort of picking up another piece because you're not sorry. And generally speaking, we assume that people who make mistakes are sorry that they made mistakes, but you're not sorry. So that makes perfect sense. Now. I don't blame you for it. I mean, I'm, you know, in like a weird way, I'm kind of glad it all happened because I'm, I have learned a lot. Like, if I didn't go through this, I wouldn't have like, I don't know, dude, I would just be so skewed in perspective to so many things. Because yeah, I went from sheltered to 20,000 viewers. If I never had any of those experiences, and everything was just positive, I would just be a fucking skewed person. I don't know. I got needed to get perspective somewhere, right? Yeah. So and you know, unfortunately, I went through it the really intense ways. But so be it, you know? Yeah, so that feels very authentic to me. So be it feels far more than because I don't I didn't really hear you. I think I get what I'm so Paul, do you get that I'm sharing this with you? Because I'm hoping that we can get some insight into, you know, how you put your words together and how people respond to them. That's why I'm sure I'm not trying to like call you out or anything like that. Are you getting that sense? Yeah. Okay. And if people are, you know, end up watching this, I don't want them to, you know, the last thing that I'd want to do is reignite all of your haters. I think it's in a weird way this this I'm having this conversation with you in the same way that I was having the conversation with you about feelings, which is like, you know, how you talk to your girlfriend about how certain conversations are hard for you. It's just for us to recognize that when we communicate in a certain way, why do we set people off? Like, because I think there's something about you, Paul, that that is interesting, because you say I made a bunch of mistakes. But if you don't feel sorry, I think that's gonna really frustrate a lot of people. Because what they're here. Yeah. It's it's also I don't know. It's just yeah, the the sorry thing. It's it's, it's I'm just not good with like expressing my emotions, as I said earlier. So it just Yeah, it comes off weird. I can, I know. Yeah, I think there's a little bit of a disconnect. Because most people, when someone says I made a mistake, and it was my fault, empathically, they expect an emotion of I'm sorry with that. But I don't get I don't get that from you. Yeah, I get no that's, you know, now that you think about it, that's probably why anytime I've ever cried on stream, I just had a terrible response. Except for the first time the first time was authentic ever the one on Twitch, then the ones on YouTube, like when I was crying, because I wanted to date someone else, but I went on this other girls date for content, like I wasn't really sorry. I just said that because I you know, the viewers were supposed to be controlling me. So, you know, but actually, I could see why they totally did not accept that apology. It was like, I just Yeah, I was just confused, bro. Yeah, no, I think Paul, to be honest, I mean, you know, people who have something on the on the autism spectrum, I think what I'm hearing from your story, like, and I don't really know, you know, if there's more to say. But basically, when I when I hear this, I think it's just a, it's a perfect storm of a lot of different things, man. You know, can I just share some thoughts with you? Yeah. So to begin with, like, I think that, you know, what I'm hearing is that you grew up and like stuff was hard, right? Because like, people didn't know what what to do with you. And like, people didn't really understand you. And like, you felt it sounds to me like you felt alone growing up really for lack. That's, you know, and, and so then, you know, Twitch came along. And I think that like, Twitch is amazing, because it's it's sort of a way for people who are misfits, a way for misfits to fit in. And that's one of the biggest things that Twitch has done for our society in terms of like, allowing people for this connection. And so you started streaming there, I think your class clown came out a little bit. But then as you kind of pointed out, you know, it also sounds like you, you know, you got that validation, and it was kind of validation and sort of the wrong direction that like anything to not be alone. And I totally get that I can understand why, you know, if you get, if you're the victim of something like a sexual assault or bullying or things like that, and if everyone around you calls you a snitch, and you have to like transfer schools and go sit in a classroom by yourself when you're like clearly the victim. You know, I can understand how that leaves a hunger for like acceptance, a hunger for friendship, like a hunger for like something. And then along comes the internet. And then all of these things that you grew up as like you don't have to be anymore. You can be someone who talks to people. You don't have to be someone with Asperger's, you can just be social. You can have lots of friends and you can be funny and people can appreciate you and you can appreciate them. I think there's a lot of I mean, there must have been a lot of just genuine goodness to your content, too. I'm not saying it was wholesome. But like there must have been like good times and solid laughs and like a lot of like, you know, hanging out, you know, and, and so that's sort of like, and then you had this sort of like high of everyone, you know, like liking you. And this is where I'd say from a spiritual perspective, I don't know if we have time for this now, right? I don't think we do. But I think there's another element of ego, or the Sanskrit word is ahamkar, which is the sense of I so your sense of identity of who you become, and who you want to be that I think is sort of active here. And then then something weird happens, I think it sounds like you sort of cultivated a particular kind of person in your chat, which you know, I totally get because I imagine had I been a little bit younger and was watching Twitch chat more religiously, I probably would have wound up in your community. I have a huge inner troll. You know, I really get it. And so and then you got banned a couple times, got a band a couple more times. And then there was this kind of SWAT thing where I do think you sort of let it sounds like you went, you kind of like, let caution go for a while there. And, you know, whatever happened happened. And then really, when you got banned from Twitch, you were sort of like, I'm getting a sense of like, you know, desperation and fear really, that all this stuff was going to be taken away. And like, you'd pay any price to hang on to it. Any price. And was it the wrong thing to do to completely destroy your boundaries and let randos like show up at your place? Like, undoubtedly, the same time, I think it's very authentic for you to say that actually, sounds like you don't regret it. No, I mean, I had a lot of good I mean, I know we're talking about the bad experiences, but I had a lot of good ones too. Dude, I have met 1000s and 1000s of fans at my doorstep. And you know, most of them are cool. And most of them I resonate with really a lot. It's only the couple situations where they're like fucking crazy people or something like, you know what I mean? Like, I've had people come like crying to me, like they like, let me move in with you, you are my god. And they're crying. And I have to say no, you cannot move in with me. And then he's post the conversation. He was recording the conversation he posted on Reddit, and run Reddit shitting on me, let this guy live with you. He's your gear, his god. And I just have to say no. And then you know, those are the bad situations. But most situations were good. Yeah. And so then we kind of get to where you are now, which is where are you now, Paul? Well, I mean, yeah, I mean, I stream on YouTube to, you know, smaller audience than 20,000. But I'm happy with it, bro. Like, honestly, I mean, obviously, 20,000 was nice, but it's not worth like the it just wasn't worth what I had to go through. Like I, I had this this project that I was doing in LA. This was the final straw 2019. I had this project I was doing, I was gonna start this like streamer house. And you know, my viewers wanted me to move in a trailer park instead of a house. And I said no, because that you know, I don't want to live in a fucking trailer and stream from it. And, you know, yeah, they they ruined the project that I had. They had investors and you know, they pulled out because the viewers were getting too crazy when, you know, they were doxing the investors and shit. They were just so pissed at me. Yeah, they were so pissed at me that they wanted to do anything to ruin this project that I had been working towards for over a year now. Because you know, getting investors is not an easy task and like getting like a whole like a bunch of employees and it was just a long process. Right. So that got ruined. And I said, All right, fuck this. I closed my Reddit down. I got it banned. You know, other Reddit started opening up, you know, for like people trying to still be a part of my community. Those got banned. And I moved to Texas got away from California, just started like a new fucking, so like a new life, bro. And I stopped streaming for a little bit streamed on mixer for for almost a year. I'm back on YouTube. And I had to stop streaming, go to mixer to get rid of the like, I just had to take time off, bro, because the some of these fucking people, bro, they just wouldn't like they just like obsessive, like when you let people control your life, you do get a certain type of viewer, like you said, and these viewers, it's hard to it's hard to get rid of them. So so I took some time off. And now my viewers, they're very nice. They respect my boundaries. I like them. And yeah, I mean, I'm very happy right now with where I am streaming. Cool. Well, I'm happy for you. Thank you. I been taught though, it's it's bro, it was like it dude, only 19 when I was taking time off, bro. It wasn't easy, dude, it had like an ego death. Because I had to re identify myself from this like persona to like, I just want to be me now. I don't want to be a persona. You know? Yeah. I mean, that makes a lot of sense to me because I'm and I'm also really happy to hear that actually, because it sounds like your ego was really out of control for a while. I Yeah, I just Yeah, I've lost a little bit of who I was as like as a person and completely became this, you know, like fucking Frankenstein, my viewers were making. Yeah. Yeah. I hate to say it that way. Because it's not like it is still my fault. The viewers aren't the ones who like made that. But I put myself in the situation to allow them to make that. Yeah. I see what you're saying. I think I mean, I'm not here to play judge in terms of who was at fault and who wasn't that's not really I mean, I think you know, I will judgment is for God if you believe in it yourself and the internet. And it's not something that I am interested in. I think my perspective, Paul, it's been an absolute pleasure talking to you. I think it's been really fascinating. I hope that, you know, especially sort of like some of this communication stuff, I think that it's interesting that a lot of people take it for granted, but there is kind of like a stepwise process to learn how to communicate. We I think sometimes we got to be really careful because there are patterns in our communication, like the way that you own up to your mistakes, but it's not really an apology, that I think that you would. It's actually the same principle as sort of talking to your girlfriend, which is like, just state how you really feel about things. Hey, I really want to talk to you, but I'm not really able to because it like brings up a lot of negative emotion. And I want to work on this, but I just can't handle it right now. And I'm really confused about like what to do about that. You know, because I'm hearing almost the same degree of like, sort of conflicting stuff, which unless you state it out for people can be confusing for them. So on the one hand, it was terrible. And I felt like I was in a toxic abusive relationship. But on the other hand, it was like also super hype. You know, I, my ego was through the roof. I was loving it. I was loving being this person who had for went from 100 viewers to 20,000 viewers. And it was amazing. And then I was also afraid and I like let let these people like do things to my life, but I also let them do it, you know, and I felt like I lost control. And at the end of the day, it sounds like really the only thing you're sorry for is the other people who got caught up in it, right and and kind of suffered because of your choices. And it sounds like you're actually grateful that I mean, I don't know, grateful may be a strong word, but that you don't regret what happened to you because it's made you the person that you are today. And that you had like, you know, a pretty narrow sliver of what your experience of life is. And like, now it's like a huge pie of like just all of these different experiences. Good, bad, crazy, hype, fun, you know, rent walking, like waking up and like randos being in your living room. Like that sounds absolutely insane. Yeah, dude, that's Yeah, my experience, bro, I have so many different perspectives. It's amazing. Yeah. And so I think the last thing that I'll kind of leave you with is I'm glad you kind of had something like an ego death because I heard the ego when you because this is the ego when it's like, I'm going to be the only streamer who dot dot dot. That's ego. Right? I want to be the only one that's not about your viewers. It's not about making good content. If you're interested in being the only whatever that's about you. And and so good luck to you, man. It's been absolute pleasure really appreciate your authenticity. And just share your story. Yeah, question. Yeah, of course. Because I do feel and I I've always felt insecure about this. But then you brought it up. Because my viewers used to say it all the time to the ego thing. Hopefully, you don't see that in me at the moment or currently, because I tried to try to try to ground myself. Yeah, so let's talk about that for just a second. So I think that I think you're on the right road for sure, Paul. And like you said, like that that kind of identity crisis that you went through in 2019, I think was probably very healthy for you. I think but I think part of the reason why people see ego, I don't think it's actually ego. I think it's just your way of communicating, which is like when you say something like, you know, I made this mistake because of the fear that's going to come across as egotistical to people like it like it's going to come across to people as saying like, Oh, it wasn't my fault. It was like my emotions, which I know it sounds weird, but it's true. And also like people are going to judge you for being egotistical. I think the only real ego that I share with you the statement that I thought was egotistical, which was the one where I want to be the only streamer who dot dot dot, that's really like the only thing that I thought was explicitly ego. Now, I mean, there may have been way more ego before, but I'm not getting a whole lot of that now. Does that sound okay? That I mean, so that do you feel reassured when I say that? Or? Yeah, I just wanted to I was just insecure, because I just don't want to, I just hope I was just hoping I wasn't coming off as like, egotistical or something. So the other tricky thing, Paul, that I should I should be more careful about this is a mistake on on mine. And I'm sorry for that is that I use the term ego is really a translation of the Sanskrit term ahamkara, which is the I feeling or the identity. And so what I'm sort of talking about is not necessarily that you were like egotistical, but that you had an identity, right? Like, this is if we think about Paul growing up, Paul was lonely, Paul was riding the short bus, Paul was all of these things. And then you have ice Poseidon, who thousands of cool people show up at your door to hang out with you. Both of those are ego, they're both a sense of who you are. And neither of them is truly who you are. Those are both identities, those are both ego. So when I say ego, I'm referring to actually both of those things. There are constructions of the mind about who we are. But that's not really who you are. Like, I know it sounds weird. But I mean, who you are is like, if you close your eyes for a second. It's like, can you feel your existence? Yeah. Like, that's who you are. Right? You're not Paul, you're not ice Poseidon, you're none of those things. All you are is like, if the world ceased to exist, right, stuck you in a time capsule and put you in like, you know, cryogenic state for 10,000 years, and you woke up and you were the last human being alive. It wouldn't matter that you're Paul, it wouldn't matter that you're ice Poseidon, wouldn't matter how many, you know, none of that would matter. All that would be left would be like the real you. Does that sort of make sense? Yeah, it does. And, and so that's sort of what I was referring to. So especially if you know, people are going to watch this and then think like, oh, like, Dr. K thinks he's like egotistical. Like, I want to clarify what I mean by that. You may be egotistical. I don't know. But no, that's a good way. That was a good way to put it. Thank you so much. Thank you, man. This has been great. I you know, I've heard a lot about you, but it's it's been great to actually talk to you. I try to see her clear of you know, what people say. But I had so you know, the reason we're doing this interview, I was like, oh, like, I guess we're not doing that on Twitch. Our folks are like, yeah, we can't you can't do it on Twitch. Well, at least we can't video about it. And hopefully, someone could learn something from my experience. So I certainly hope so. And I really appreciate you being willing to come on, especially given all the hate that you've experienced. You know, hopefully nothing bad comes of this. And you know, if something bad does happen, and please let us know so that we can try to support you if we can. Okay. Yeah, for sure, man. All right. Take care, dude. All right. Thanks a lot, man. See you later.