 your mind, especially when it's hopeless, is not a very good predictor of the future. Does that make sense? Hello. Hi. How are you? Right now, I'm happy to be here. But generally, I've been feeling hopeless and lost. Oh my goodness. Can you start by telling me what you go by or how I should refer to you? Leia is fine. Leia. Yeah, so I'm so sorry to hear that, Leia, that you've been feeling hopeless and... Did you say directionless? Yes. Can you tell me a little bit about that? Well, I was doing well for a bit. And then, I don't know, even Monday, I was really doing well and hopeful. And then, it was like every day, something terrible happened. And I'm back at a place of hopelessness. And I can't see the future, basically. That sounds awful. Yeah. Can you help me understand a little bit, when you were feeling hopeful on Monday, how long had you been hopeful? It was building up. I think it was building up and it was just a full day or two. Things are going to be really good, actually. And I was telling my friends, I think things are going to get better for all of us. And then, it definitely didn't. Yeah. Can I ask you a couple of questions about that? Yeah. So it sounds like you had a string of bad stuff happen to you. Yeah. Do you feel comfortable sharing what happened? I can try. I had people close to me experience huge loss. Okay. And then, my family as well. I experienced a huge loss in my family back in January, and I hadn't really gone back more than a few times. And I went back this past week and to look through the estate stuff. Oh my goodness. Yeah. And then, I had my very close friends lose people. And I won't tell their stuff, but it was a big deal. But if I'm hearing... Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Oh, I was just going to keep going. Yeah, keep going. Oh my God. There's more. I experienced rejection. That was hard, but I was feeling really positive about it. But then, I think with all this other stuff, I was like, oh, I don't know if I can handle this. Sure. And rejection in a personal way or professional way or what? One specifically was romantic. In other ways, I'm also job hunting, so that's the whole thing. But it was a very close friend of mine that I have feelings for. And I was like... Obviously, usually, I would be fine, I think. But I think with everything else, it just became kind of unbearable. And it was like everything in my library section of my life felt tainted and just bad. Yeah. It sounds like you can't catch a break in any dimension. It sounds like your friends are going through a lot, your family is going through a lot, you're going through a lot. And it also sounds like there's actual literal death involved. Yeah. And then, of course, the nail on the head was like, Friday or whatever, when the Roe V Wade stuff happened, it was like, wow, I feel completely powerless in anything. Because I am a woman in the US, and it's terrifying. Yeah. When you said, I'm a woman in the US, my instinctive response was, my condolences. Which is such an absurd thing to say. So I just laughed a little bit there. Sometimes I laugh, arguably inappropriately, when people are offering. It's okay. I've been laughing this whole time, out of nervousness. Yeah. So, I mean, Leigh, it sounds like, I mean, can I just think for a second? So, you know, my first thought is, when people call in, presumably, I'm supposed to be able to help them in some way. Right? Like, that's why people call in, is that we're here to help. The first thing that I want to say is that I don't know exactly what we're going to be able to do for you. But oddly enough, I'm not hopeless with you. But I can absolutely see how this is not something that can be fixed with a bit of advice or some kind of revelation. Like, sometimes when people struggle in our community, I think it's because they're doing something wrong. Right? So either we'll get a particular thought that takes control of our mind, or we'll have like a cognitive bias, or, you know, we're playing, spending too much time on the internet or things like that. Whereas in your situation, I genuinely feel like, I mean, this is, you know, a lot of this stuff is really has nothing to do with your choices. And I can totally understand how it feels hopeless, because it's not like you're doing anything wrong. Does that make sense? Yeah. How do you feel about that? You know, it's just that hopeless feeling. I do want to say, like, your work has helped me a lot. And I just appreciate that generally, even if you feel like you don't have like revelations right now. But like, the past few months, it's been very helpful. Can you help me understand that a little bit? What's been helpful? You did this interview, I think, with, I can't find it. I think it was with Mizgif, but it was like a meditation where like, you could feel your, the you higher than you, like pulling your thoughts back, basically. I don't know. This is, sorry if this is like completely irrelevant. But it was like a huge thing for me, because it helped me realize like, soul, like there is a soul. Like, I don't know, it was a huge spiritual thing for me. And it's part of like, what keeps me going right now. Leia, I'd love to hear more about that. Are you comfortable talking about that for a little bit? Yeah, if it's okay, we talk about spiritual stuff. I don't, I mean, I assume it is, but. Yeah. I mean, because I think in a situation like this, when we can't bring people back from the dead, and we can't make people fall in love with you. Yeah. Um, I think I'd love to hear a little bit about that practice and what you sort of experienced and what you've learned from it. Yeah, I mean, I believe, I don't fully know my beliefs or like, what to label them or anything, but I know, like, I believe in, I think I believe in souls and like, reincarnation and stuff like that. So I find myself being like, well, if you do just quit now, you're just going to be going back into it. Like, I don't know, like, I might as well try to make the most of this body and life and everything. I don't know. Okay. Yeah. So I actually, Leia, I really appreciate your perspective, because I think sometimes we start with beliefs. You know, we say like, this is what I believe. But what I really hear from you is that you're figuring it out. Like, kind of like one sort of painful step at a time, which, which is exactly how kind of I, I, in a sense, quote, unquote, figured it out for myself. It was like, it's really confusing, but I really found that meditation helped me have a couple of foundational experiences that then helped me like organize my life. And if you're open to it, I'd love to try to facilitate that process for you. Yeah. So tell me a little bit about when you did that practice, what did you experience? Not sure how to describe it, but it was like, I just remember feeling like completely shocked, like, I don't know, just not shocked, but like, it was just mind blowing. Like that experience is like, I just felt in touch with myself on such a level. I don't know. Yeah. So, so let me ask that. That's great. So, so I think I understand what you mean. And I know it's kind of weird. So like, there's, there's the you, right? So the you involves like a body and a mind. And hopelessness happens within the body and the mind. Does that make sense? Yeah. And what you experienced in that moment of like, knowing yourself, was that within the mind or outside of the mind? It felt outside. Well, I guess like, knowing that I was knowing my mind was in my not my mind, but myself was in my mind, but like, the actual event was past it, you know? Yeah. So, so what I'm hearing is that you had some kind of experience that was, we use the word sometimes transcendent. Does that make sense? So it's kind of beyond mind. And then later your mind made sense of it. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So the way that you put together your beliefs, beliefs happen within the mind, but then, you know, these experiences happen outside of it. So, and this is where, do you mind if I ask how old you are? I'm 21. Okay. And this is the kind of thing where like, you know, I'd sort of say that you've had a lot of bad stuff happen to you. And it can be very common for your mind to feel hopeless. Does that make sense? Yeah. But I also think I know it's kind of weird, but like, I think that your mind, especially when it's hopeless, is not a very good predictor of the future. Does that make sense? Probably true. What do you think about that? You're more than welcome to disagree. Um, I mean, it makes sense. It's just like one of those places, you know, where like, I haven't talked to any of my friends about it because I know like anything they say is not going to touch it, you know? What do you mean by that? It is just like, if they're going to try to say positive things and I just know I'm in a space where like, it's not going to resonate, you know? Even if like, objectively, I can say that the hopelessness probably isn't definitive, actually, of like, what's going to happen. I don't know. Yep. Yeah. So let's talk about that for a second. So objectively, it may not be accurate, but it feels overwhelming. Yeah. Right? The objectivity of the situation doesn't friggin' matter. Yeah. What's, how do you understand that? I don't know how to make, like, make myself come back to the surface, I guess, you know? Yeah. So that sounds like you're drowning. I feel like it. Yeah. So, you know, I think, Leigh, my heart goes out to you, it genuinely does. I'm hopeful for you, and I don't expect you to be hopeful for yourself. And I think that's okay. What do you think about that? Yeah. So how did you come to start hoping for stuff on Monday? It felt like, I think I had, I just feel like things were going to get better, or like, I saw good things could happen. Nothing specific, just like, I think good things are going to happen from now on, you know? Or something good will happen. Yeah, you'll catch a break. So things were looking up. Yeah. And oddly enough, that's probably what made all these different challenges so much worse. Probably, yeah. Right? Is that you were foolish enough to hope for a few days. And look at where it got you, Leigh. Where did it get you? Yeah. So this is what I'd say. First thing, Leigh, is I'm really, really happy that you were able to do some meditation, and you were able to have this transcendent experience. I would encourage you to continue meditating. Are you able to do that, do you think? Technically, yes. I'm sorry, do you say mentally, yes? Technically, yes. That's just one of those things where you got to like, do it. Yeah. So it's a really good point, right? So I think sometimes, so this is the tricky thing about meditation is that oftentimes we meditate for something. The problem is that if you're meditating for something, you'll open it up to feelings of hopelessness. I don't know if that sort of makes sense. Because if I'm meditating for a purpose, and then I start to believe that that purpose isn't possible, then the hopelessness will infect the meditative practice. Like having expectations? Yeah, not expectations. Yeah, but like if I meditate, let's say I'm meditating to help with my ADHD. And then if I start meditating, and my ADHD doesn't get better, what happens to my motivation for meditating? It cripples. Absolutely. What a great word, cripples, right? So I know it sounds kind of weird, but I think that being able to meditate in spite of not having any reason is going to be a really important step forward for you. Because I think the main thing here is going to be the more that you can ground yourself in that transcendent experience, and it'll come again, if you keep at it. If it happened to you once, like whatever happened in your brain can absolutely happen again. And I think that that place will be a source of strength for you. So that place can sort of help you understand that like the hopelessness in your mind is completely valid, and also may not be correct. Does that make sense? Yeah. The other thing to consider is that, you know, some of what you're feeling is probably like, honestly, like a natural consequence of what you've been through. So as you take like, emotional critical hit, do you play games? Yeah. So as you get emotionally critically hit again, and again, and again, you're going to be like, you know, your health bar is flashing, like, your character has like some debuffs and things like that. And that's like, basically, it sounds like the state that you're in right now. Is that how it feels? Yeah. And so the kind of weird thing is the good news is that in a weird way, I think time is actually like on your side, because I just don't think statistically, this kind of crap is going to keep happening to you. I feel like it has, like my whole life. But I get what you mean. Yeah, tell me about that. So maybe maybe I'm wrong. I don't know. I just feel like I've always been going through like traumatic events or like, obviously, not like the worst tragic traumatic events you could go through, but like, you know, still bad. So it just feels like I never catch a break, you know, or like I do for like those two days, and then it's like, oh, reality check. Yeah, so that that's where one of two possibilities is there. One is that you're just genuinely screwed in terms of karma. The other thing to consider, though, is that the other the mind's ability to notice the good and notice the bad can be adjusted. So sometimes like there are people who will have like, you know, one good thing happen and one bad thing happen. It's kind of like if you think about like, you know, if I if I take a test, and I answer 89 questions right, and 11 questions wrong, all everyone focuses on is the 11 questions I got wrong. Does that make sense? Yeah. Do you think you could be doing that? Um, I mean, there is joy in the little things, you know. So I'm hearing I'm hearing no. So so so that's what I'm hearing there, Leia is there's joy in the little things, but there's crap in the big ones. I know. Yeah, that that sounds that sounds bad, dude. Yeah, I mean, I'm just I just feel like I'm surviving and like, I mean, I have my cat, and like, that's like. Yeah. So what I'm hearing is that you've got consolation prizes, but you don't have like, the real prizes. Not yet. Help me understand the yet in that statement. I feel like I'm always thinking like, you know, at some point, there's got to be, you know, it's got to get better at some point. Yeah, something's got to give basically. Yeah, I for what it's worth. I agree with that. I know it can be hard to hold on to that hope when you're kind of getting fatty crit after fatty crit. Yeah. Yeah. Right and left. And I really applaud essentially your resilience, like, because it's not easy to even hold on to that much hope. And it's it's actually okay to feel hopeless from time to time. From what for what it's worth. I do think that like, karmically, like, you know, your life should get better at some point. Yeah. But it sounds tough. What do you do to sort of how do you manage these kinds of feelings? Right now I'm isolating, which is bad. But probably. This is like the I mean, it's been a few days now. I just haven't talked to anyone. So talking to you is like, oh, I don't know. Other than that, I'm trying to do art. But okay. So I'm hearing that all the stuff that you should be doing, right? Like, oh, like, oh, you're feeling bad about yourself, paint a picture and do some art there. Meditate. Do all of the things and pull yourself out of the darkness with all of your effort. Yeah, exactly. I'm eating and sleeping and. Yeah, it's, I don't know. It's okay to get owned for a little while. You know, for what it's worth, I'm glad you called in today. How do you feel about that? Yeah, I am too. It's just, I didn't expect to be here or talking to you. And it's just like, I don't know, it's like I was wanting someone to tell me good things and. I don't know. It's just crazy. What are you getting from this conversation? Am I telling you good things? Not. I mean, kind of. You're saying that you're hopeful and. And it is just crazy because I, you know, I've been listening to your podcast like every day for like a couple months or a few months. So it's just surreal, you know? Yeah, so I don't know if like talking to me right now is like, is good luck or bad luck? Like, I don't know if this is like positive karma in the sense that, oh, you get to talk to Dr. K and maybe this is a lucky break for you. Or it's like actually like bad RNG because I can't tell you something to magically fix your life. So you got to talk to Dr. K and even that didn't turn everything around. Which is it? I don't expect you to turn everything around. I don't mean lucky in like a weird way, just that someone who's helped me so much with like feeling hope in the past and like you're here now and it does make me feel like hopeful, you know? I don't know if it makes sense. You know, I don't quite get it, but I don't know that I need to. I'm sorry. No, seriously. I think the important thing is that, you know, so here's what I'm hearing from you, Lea. First of all, like you've had a really crappy week basically, where there's like national stuff that is really, really concerning for your future and the autonomy of your body. That's bad enough. There was a romantic rejection, which is also bad. Sounds like stuff on the job front isn't going ideal. And it sounds like friends and family have recently dealt with death that you kind of got like front and center, right? When you went home. And so you're kind of getting like bodied on all sides. And I think that like, you know, it's kind of interesting because feeling hopeless in a situation like this is actually like pretty normal. Yeah. And I think you've sort of retreated into yourself and you're kind of like hibernating, which is also okay. And I'm really, really glad that you probably stepped out of your comfort zone a little bit and decided to come here today and talk about it a little bit. Like I see you making, taking steps forward. Does that make sense? Yeah. So I'm sorry I can't fix everything for you. I really wish I could. I wish I could give you a hug. That would, that's really what I think you need more than anything else right now. And also like there are things that I'm, I'm really kind of hopeful about, which is sort of weird. I know that in terms of my spiritual understanding, like suffering was a huge, huge part of forcing me to like look at my life and really figure out what was important to me and like what I cared about, as well as sort of understanding like how to influence my mind and stuff. Like, and I sort of see that in your path as well, that you sort of had this meditative experience and now you're going through all of this crap and like, it's hard for me to describe in any other way, but what gives me hope is that people who have transcendental experiences in meditation and then go through a bunch of crap are the ones that actually do the best like three to five years out. Interesting. I've seen that pattern time and time and time again. And there's probably like some kind of bias there because, you know, I'm a psychiatrist. So sometimes the people that come to me are really in despair. And then they sort of have this transcendent, transcendent experience. And then like, I think now is the time layer where you've really got to figure out and you don't have to do this all at once, but like what life is, like, what does it mean to exist? What does it mean? Like what part of you is real? What's your body? What's your mind? What's your soul? And then hopefully through that process, you'll also begin to understand like the influence of karma, karma on this cycle that you're kind of going through and things like that. In terms of like, these are all things that if you believe in the theory of karma and reincarnation, this is sort of like you're paying off all of your bad debts. And this is what's really, really challenging for a lot of people is they think that like, you know, paying off a debt sucks, definitely, because you put in time and effort, and then you don't get anything for it, you know, but it doesn't continue forever. What continues forever is if you continue making bad decisions. Right. What do you think about all that random crap I just threw your way? I mean, it makes me wonder, you know, because I've thought a lot or tried to think about like karma and like, you know, are all these things because of I don't know, just why, you know, Good. I think that's, that's really understand. Yeah. So oddly enough, like that makes me hopeful for you because like to be 21 and to ask why. And here's the thing that I want you to really think about. Like, if you were if your life was like, completely average, you would not be asking why with the desperation that you are. Does that make sense? Yeah. If it doesn't, let me know. Oh, it does. I just Yeah. So so and this is what makes me hopeful is that desperation is absolutely necessary for true spiritual growth. Like Buddha had that desperation, he was asking why his situation was a little bit luckier than yours, in the sense that he had everything. And it sounds like in some ways, you've got nothing. Well, I think you've got a lot actually. So it sounds like you have family, you've got a cat, you've got friends who care about you, you have us here at the HG community, right? So yeah. And I think as you continue to ask that why, and then like the other thing I'd say is like, start taking care of yourself, maybe a little bit better. It's fine to have, you know, isolate for a little while. But like, I want you to really think a little bit about concretely, like what you can manage in terms of like, you know, taking a walk or meditating, like, what do you think you can do, despite the fact that you're feeling pretty down and hopeless? Yeah. Is there something you think you can do, like in terms of taking care of yourself or supporting your body or mind a little bit better? I don't know. So I feel like I'm doing, trying to, I mean, probably like talking to my friends would be good. Or like when I get a new job, it would be easier. I don't know. What makes it hard to do those things? Get a new job or talk to your friends? Oh, the friend thing is like, cause I've been feeling this such intense, heavy feeling, I don't want them to feel responsible for like, how I feel or what I do, you know? I don't want them to feel like they have to fix things for me or anything. Okay. Cause I know, like I said, I know like it is at such a level that I know if they try, it's gonna just pull them into my hopelessness. I feel, or like. It sounds like you care about your friends a lot and you're almost trying to protect them from you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What do you think about that? Yeah. I don't know. It's tough. I know they're going through so much, like, and I feel like my feeling this way is just going to pull them down, you know? What do you think they would say about that? They would want me to talk to them, but I just don't see it being productive sometimes. Okay. So as someone who's had a transcendent experience, you don't see it as being productive. What is the you in that sentence? That's my mind. And how much can you trust your mind right now? Not very much, I guess. Wow. Wow. So, Leia, I'll give you one. Do you want to explain the wow? Just like realizing over and over like, oh, I can't really trust my thoughts at the moment. Yeah. It's just interesting. Which is pretty cool because your recognition that you can't trust your thoughts is like pretty neat, right? So you can sort of trust them. Yeah. It's like, no, no, you can't trust your mind. Therefore, you can't trust the conclusion that you can't trust your mind. So this is, Leia, this is how purification of the mind works. Right? So like a tiny part of your mind just got purified. And this is where like, this is where I kind of say that this, you know, your life has given you good karma and negative karma. And it's your friend's karma to deal with your crap. And I want you to go into that interaction. So first of all, I want you to reach out to your friends. Secondly, I want you to reach out to your friends mentally prepared for what's going to happen. You're going to feel guilty. Agreed? Yeah. They're going to try to help you. Are they going to problem solve, validate or both? Both. So when they problem solve, what is your mind going to do to the problem solving? Resist it. Which is okay. And when they validate, what is your mind going to do? I don't know. I just feel like, okay. So your mind may resist that too. Yeah, in a way. Right. Just be indifferent to it, kind of. Yeah. So let yourself be loved by your friends. And if you feel guilty because they're helping you, first of all, they signed up for that crap when they decided to be your friend. So that's part of their karma. And also this is the kind of thing where I want you to accept their help and also pay it back. Right? So we've got two options to be karmically neutral. One is that they don't help you and you don't help them. Or they help you and you help them. And this is the kind of thing where what I see in society today is that we all need each other's help. Yeah. So are you getting help through this conversation? I think so. Are you helping other people through this conversation? Potentially. I feel like there's a lot of hopelessness in the world right now. Yeah. People probably relate to that. I think you're helping people a lot. What do you think about that? That makes me want to cry. Yeah, I'm crying. I'm tearing up too. I don't even know why. What the hell's going on? I don't know. Can I ask you a question? Sure. Spiritually. They're not bad tears. I'm just surprised. Okay, go ahead. Are you okay, Dr. Candy? Do you need to talk about it? Yeah, I know. I'm talking about it. I can feel my feelings. You had a question? Yeah. So the spiritual stuff, I don't know where to go with it, basically. I recognize I have a soul and that there's probably karma and stuff, but I don't know where to go with that. It's a great question. Here are a couple things that I'd recommend. The first is that you continue practicing. So ultimately, Lea, the most important thing is going to be your experience, because when you experience things in meditation, that's the core of the knowledge. But there's also another component, which is I think what you're asking about, which is how do you make sense of what happens to you in meditation? Is that what you're looking for? Yeah. So I'd say there are two things you should do. One is you should try to find a sangha, so a community of some kind. I'm not going to ask you where you live in the United States because doxing and all that. There's got to be some kind of meditation center, community, temple, whatever in your area. I'm from Texas, and Texas is not very, in a sense, pro-meditation, but there's a ton of meditation stuff all over the US now. I know it's going to feel kind of anxiety provoking, but I would just go to one of those places or call one of those places and say, hey, I'm interested in learning more about meditation. Do you all have lectures or whatever? You can go to just any place and start getting exposure. That's where basically your karma will set you up for this kind of stuff, where you may find a couple places in your area. Try a couple and just go there and just see if you like the vibe. The other thing that you can do is read. I think a lot of good meditation teachers that are introductory, like Alan Watts is really good. You can read a commentary on Patanjali's Yoga Sutras. It's a little bit, in a sense, advanced because there's a lot of esoteric concepts in there. But I like the Bhagavad Gita by Ekhnath Ishwaran is a very, very good introductory book for Western people who didn't grow up with this culture. That's generally regarded as a religious text from the Hindu tradition. So if that rubs you the wrong way, you don't have to do that. I don't know how to spell that. That's totally fine. I think Tech Teller is going to hook you up with both of those. I'd start with a couple of books and then actually try to go hang out with people who meditate. They probably will have lectures and stuff. Thank you so much. That's really helpful. You're very welcome, Lea. Okay, we have a visitor. Okay, Avi, daddy's working, sweetie. You're so hungry. Okay, sweetie. Okay, you can't be... What? Little, little bit more. Okay, I think I'm going to have to go for a second. So I'm going to say goodbye to you. Okay. Okay. Do you want to say hi to Lea? Hello. Lea is feeling sad because she had some bad stuff happen to her. What do we do for people who are feeling sad? You don't know? Okay, we'll talk about it. Lea, excuse me for a moment, but good luck to you, okay? Thank you so much. Thank you. I have to go put with this child. Okay. Well, all right, come on. Oh my gosh, that's so cute.