 So what we're talking about in bipolar disorder is extended periods of time. We're talking weeks or months with a particular mood fluctuation that then kind of resolves and then people can kind of flip the other way. So today I want to talk to you all a little bit about bipolar disorder. And more specifically, I've had a ton of patients who frequently want to go off of medication. And the more that I've talked to people about who have a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, they have a real love-hate relationship when it comes to medication. So on the one hand, medication can be really, really good for stabilizing your mood, kind of keeping you consistent on a day-to-day basis, helps people finish college, helps people sort of maintain healthy relationships. There are a lot of good things for medication with bipolar disorder. The challenge is that oftentimes the medications come with pretty heavy side effects for a lot of people. We're not talking about, you know, sometimes they can have physical side effects as well. But a lot of times what I hear from my patients with bipolar disorder is that they feel kind of mellowed out a little bit. They don't feel like life is quite as exciting. They also sometimes feel like it causes problems with their creativity. And the most common reason that I hear from my patients about why they want to stop their medication is because they can handle it now and it's under control. And so why should I continue taking medication if I'm feeling really good every single day? And so that's a really, really good question. And it's actually a really challenging issue. But what I'd love to do today is to talk to you all a little bit about how I think about bipolar disorder and sort of how to think a little bit about medication and common things that a lot of patients and honestly even a lot of doctors and nurse practitioners may not really know or the way that they kind of think about. So hopefully this will be a little bit educational. It'll help people understand a little bit about why generally speaking psychiatrists will be in favor of their patients staying on medication even though everything seems to be going really well. So the first thing that I kind of want to start with is almost like a provider or clinical perspective. So I've talked to a lot of psychiatrists and nurse practitioners about how they prescribe medications for bipolar disorder. And I'm a little bit surprised actually by how simplistic a lot of the thinking is. So a lot of times people will sort of think about, okay, here's a disease. Here's a medication that treats a disease. So let's just start the medication and stick with the medication. It's like pretty simple, right? That's how our system of medicine works. If you've got pneumonia, start antibiotics and that'll kind of fix the problem. And what I really found that's actually quite disturbing is that I've seen a lot of patients who are coming in from other providers who will be on tons of medications and presumably for bipolar disorder. And I'll kind of ask them like, okay, like why are you taking these four medications? They're like, oh, I'm bipolar and I've got ADHD and I've got anxiety. So this is why I'm taking all these medications. And I get kind of confused by that because when I look at the medications, it doesn't really make a lot of sense to me like how these medications kind of all got piled on. And usually what I, in the bad scenarios, what we've got is someone who's really sort of treating a disease as opposed to a person. They're sort of thinking about, okay, this is like, here's bipolar disorder. So like, let's give you some medication. And if the patient comes in two months later and they're still experiencing symptoms or their bipolar disorder isn't under control or they're complaining of something or their family complains of something, someone will like add an additional medication, add additional medication. And then you sort of get into the situation where people are on tons of medications and aren't even sure what they're doing. I would say that for a lot of patients that I've seen who are coming from other providers, that the majority of them actually do better with like fewer medications, but the ones that are selected correctly. And that's what I'd love to share with you all today is kind of my perspective on how I sort of think about bipolar disorder and how to think about whether medications are appropriate or not. So once again, a big disclaimer that these are all things, this is for educational purposes only. I don't recommend that you alter your medications based on anything we talk about today, but rather use what we talk about today as a launching pad into conversations with whoever's prescribing you medication and ask questions like, why am I being prescribed these regimens? What's the sort of clinical reasoning behind this medication, this medication, this medication, this medication? Why are you giving me this? What is this one supposed to do? What is this one supposed to do? And oftentimes it's patients who unfortunately have to advocate for themselves because especially as we're sort of, as mental health providers are becoming increasingly burdened, oftentimes what's happening is a lot of patients are being over prescribed medication. So let's talk a little bit about bipolar disorder. The first thing to understand about bipolar disorder is it doesn't mean that your mood fluctuates wildly on a day-to-day basis. So I'll sometimes talk to parents who'll be like, oh my God, my kid is bipolar. Anytime he plays the video games and if we stop playing the video games, then he throws, starts throwing things and temper tantrums and this and that. So a lot of times people will confuse temper tantrums or mood swings with bipolar disorder. And generally speaking, that's what we call emotional lability. And it's like not actually bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is characterized by periods of time that are pretty extensive and are dominantly like have a mood fluctuation. So what that sort of means is we're talking about three months of depression or six months of depression or one year of depressive symptoms, or we're talking about weeks of hypomanic or manic symptoms. So it's not like you're depressed one day and manic the next day. That can happen sometimes, but it's usually not really what bipolar disorder looks like. It's the exception rather than the rule. So what we're talking about in bipolar disorder is extended periods of time. We're talking weeks or months with a particular mood fluctuation that then kind of resolves and then people can kind of flip the other way. So for example, oftentimes when people have bipolar disorder, they'll experience a period of mania or hypomania. So these are characterized by things like a lack of sleep or lack of need for sleep, high degrees of high levels of energy, being irritable, being a little bit arrogant or grandiose and thinking that you can kind of take on the world and start a company and solve problems in quantum mechanics and discover quantum computing and all this kind of stuff. There's a lot of grandiosity, a lot of elevated mood, but also really irritable. Not sleeping as much, not eating as much, talking a lot, being a little bit disorganized and confused. So that's really common for mania or hypomania. Keep in mind that hypomania is basically a less severe form of mania and oftentimes is an adaptive advantage, which is part of the reason why a lot of people that I've worked with really, really dislike being on their bipolar disorder medication. Because if you look at, for example, like Ivy League institutions, oftentimes their student population will actually have more bipolar disorder than the average population and specifically with hypomania. So I remember talking to, when I was training at Massachusetts General Hospital, I had some colleagues who worked at Harvard College and MIT student health services. And as I was kind of talking to them, oh, what's it like working with these kids who go to Harvard and MIT? And the responses that I got is like, yeah, we deal with a lot of type two bipolar disorder or hypomania. And it turns out that that's actually an adaptive advantage because you can be a really good student if you're fully functional with four hours of sleep a night and you can kind of be a little bit focused, a little bit more energetic. And so a lot of those kids are actually very reluctant to take medication because it makes actually studying harder and they require more sleep. So kind of going back to bipolar disorder, we're talking about long periods of time where your mood is actually really, really low. And so let's talk about a depressive episode for a second. So these are situations where your energy level is low, your ability to concentrate is impaired. You may see changes to your physiology like low energy, difficulty getting out of bed, sleeping too much, or sleeping actually too little but being tired all the time. So that's kind of what we think about with as a depressive episode. Cognitively, we're also talking a little bit about things like negative self-attitude. So feeling really guilty, feeling really ashamed about yourself, feeling like other people really don't like you. And that's kind of like persistent. And in the case of a depressive episode, how do you separate that out from let's say low self-esteem? So oftentimes with a depressive episode, it's episodic. So that means that there's a period of time where it's discreetly worse. So it's not like your baseline and also tends to be kind of refractory to other sorts of things. So if people encourage you, even if you've got low self-esteem, hopefully you can feel a little bit better. You can feel loved or valued by your friends. Whereas when people are in a depressive episode, the kind of love and care of other people seems to kind of bounce off. A couple of other things in depressive episodes, sometimes we'll see things like suicidal ideation or a decreased interest in activities. So this is a little bit more specific for a depressive episode, which is something that we call anhedonia, which is the inability to enjoy things that you would normally find pleasurable. So life just kind of feels really gray. It's not as much fun to watch things or play things or hang out with friends. So that's kind of what a depressive episode looks like. The key thing about bipolar disorder is we're experiencing, let's say, a depressive episode for six months, and then we'll experience mania afterward or hypomania. And it's very common for people who experience mania or hypomania to crash afterward and enter a depressive episode. So that's really what we're talking about when we're referring to bipolar disorder. We're not talking about day-to-day mood fluctuations. That can happen, but it's really the exception rather than the rule. So then the question kind of becomes, okay, as a clinician, how do we think about treating bipolar disorder? And this is where what I'm going to do is whip out the old trusty iPad and let's understand this. Okay. So when it comes to bipolar disorder, what we want to do is understand that medications serve four functions. So when it comes to bipolar disorder, medications actually have four different functions. Okay. So let's start by looking at mood. So let's say that this is the baseline mood. Let's say here's, let's take a patient who's got, let's say, three weeks of mania followed by six months of depression. Okay. Actually, I'm going to say three months of depression, three weeks of mania followed by, let's say a few months of depression. Okay. So this is the manic phase. This is the depressive phase. So what are the four roles of medication? So one job of medication is to take someone who's manic and bring them to baseline. This is what we call treatment of acute mania. Another thing that we want to do is bring people who are depressed and bring them back to baseline. So this is treatment of acute depression. So these are situations where you've got an active mood disturbance. Okay. And we want to bring someone back to normal. So an analogy for this would be like, let's say I've got a fever and then I take like a medication like acetaminophen or ibuprofen, and these are anti-piratic medications. So let's say I've got a fever and then I take like a medication like acetaminophen or ibuprofen, and these are anti-piratic medications. The goal is to take an abnormal state and bring it back to baseline. The other roles, and this is actually pretty simple. I mean, I could explain it in five minutes. The other thing to remember is that when we're talking about mania, this process is really important. So before we become fully manic, there's this period of time where our mood fluctuates, and this process is really important. So the other thing that medications do is they prevent mood fluctuations. Okay. So this is what I kind of think of is more chronic or preventive mood stabilization. So there's treatment of acute depression and acute mania, and there's prevention of further episodes. So if we look at things like antidepressant medication, antidepressant medication has a couple of different effects. One is it improves mood acutely, but then it also reduces the frequency and duration and severity of subsequent episodes. Does that make sense? So not only are we doing this piece over here with like a medication, but we're also doing this with a medication that's going to help us improve moods. So our goal is to make future mood episodes really small and reduce their duration and frequency over time. So what we sort of know is when people are on antidepressant medication, like without antidepressant medication, let's say like you get depressed once a year or once every other year. With antidepressant medication, you get depressed once every four years, and it tends to last less time and it's like less bad. So the key thing to remember is that there are acute mania. So when it comes to bipolar disorder, there are medications for acute mania, acute depression, which means a depressive episode, and then also preventing mania. And preventing depression. So the first thing that I tend to see that honestly it's kind of bad when clinicians make this mistake, but I see it all too common, is they'll get started on treatments for this stuff and then they just stay on there. So there are some medications, so like let's take example lithium, is a really common medication that actually checks all of these boxes. So some medications actually do all four. So it's very reasonable for people to get started on like a particular medication and then just stay on it. But the key thing here is that you should understand why you're using the lithium. In the short term, we may be using it for acute mania and we may want to keep it on. But what I also tend to see, which there's data to support this as well, is a lot of times people will use antipsychotics, especially during the acute portion. So a lot of times first line treatment for acute mania, like severe mania, because sometimes you can even become psychotic while you're manic, is to start someone on an antipsychotic. And the medication works really well, right? So you can have a medication like let's say olanzapine. And olanzapine is one of the FDA approved medications along with an SSRI. It's one of the FDA approved regimens to treat bipolar disorder in the United States. But oftentimes what I tend to see is that people will stay on olanzapine long term, which is not really my first choice. So this is actually like, you can have a check here. It's not what I prefer, but it is an evidence-based treatment. So hopefully you all understand that. And why don't I prefer olanzapine? And why don't I prefer olanzapine as a long-term treatment? So olanzapine, for example, tends to cause people to gain about 20 pounds or 10 kgs, has worsens cardiovascular outcomes. So people just gain a lot of weight. Sometimes they feel pretty sleepy. And like, it's not good. They'll get like pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes and stuff like that if you're on the medication for a long time. So there are good reasons to be on the olanzapine, especially with fluoxetine. I think that's the combination. That's FDA approved for treatment of bipolar disorder. But you have to remember that some medications work better in the short term and you can stay on in the long term. There's actually data that shows that in terms of algorithms, if something works over here and you can use it over here, that's what you should stay with. Because if you try one thing for this and then move to a different medication for maintenance, sometimes outcomes get worse. But the key thing to kind of think about is that your acute treatment and your chronic treatment are two different things. So then we've got other things like, let's say, lamotrigine. And this is just one doctor's opinion, okay? So this isn't like scientific fact. So then we've also got lamotrigine, which has been shown, in my opinion, to not really work well for preventing mania, but actually works okay for preventing depression. Doesn't really work great, in my opinion, in terms of acute mania or acute depression. So lamotrigine also has the added benefit of working really well for mood lability, which is what we kind of talked about earlier, which is not bipolar disorder, which is like fluctuations in mood on a day-to-day basis. So this is just an example of like another medication and how it kind of misses some of these things, but then gets others. And then we've got some really interesting evidence that shows that some medication, like let's say SSRIs, can be used for acute depression, but they don't really work that great, to be honest. They usually take about eight weeks to really kick in. And definitely works well for preventing depression, but in some cases may actually increase the risk of developing mania. So this too, there's a lot of debate in the psychiatric community. So in Europe, for example, there are many regions in Europe where they'll prescribe SSRIs for people with a history of bipolar disorder. They don't think it really worsens the risk of mania. But here in the U.S., we tend to be really, really hesitant around providing SSRIs without a mood stabilizer. So now we get to a couple of, okay, does that make sense? We kind of with you there, or you're all with me. So let's just kind of review real quick. So when it comes to bipolar disorder, our goal is sometimes acute treatment and then preventive treatment. And these are two totally different things. There are some cases where you have one medication that can do all four. And so if that medication works well for you, totally fine. You can take it. You're kind of done. But oftentimes, what we'll end up seeing is that if you look at acute mania, acute depression, and then preventing mania and preventing depression, you can kind of create a situation where these all kind of like work with each other. So let's say I use an SSRI. Sorry. Let's say I use an SSRI to prevent depression. Now the problem is if that increases my risk of mania, I may need something like a mood stabilizer. So let's say I use something like carbamazepine. Okay, so that's why I'm kind of getting this. And then unfortunately, sometimes what'll happen is that I'll have olanzapine, which is an anti-psychotic, which got started because I was acutely manic. And I got discharged from the hospital. They sent me to the hospital. They got discharged from the hospital. They sent me with a prescription because I was supposed to take it for two weeks. It kind of just stays on. And then now what's happened is I've got three medications on that I may not even need. I may not need the olanzapine anymore because I'm not acutely manic. As long as I've got the carbamazepine and the SSRI, I may be doing okay. So this is where it's really, really important to think a little bit about, okay, is this combination, is this working for me? Do I still need this medication? And the main thing is that we really need to be careful about stopping these treatments if we no longer need them. And what I tend to find is that this patient will kind of come in and they'll say, like, oh, I'm not doing well. I feel very, very stressed out. They're still on the olanzapine. And then what'll happen is someone will be like, okay, well, it sounds like you're irritable. It sounds like you're having difficulty sleeping. So this medication regimen is insufficient. So let's add another one, right? Because you're symptomatic. Oh, the medications aren't working. And so then what they do is they add lithium. And now we're suddenly on four medications. And this is what tends to happen is that people will just kind of like add stuff on, and then we get people who are really overmedicated. Also an increasing problem, depending on how, like, longitudinal care is, because sometimes you'll have someone covering, you're seeing this person for this thing and that person for that thing. And then what happens is, like, well, like, I don't know if it's like medically, medico-legally safe to stop the olanzapine. If someone else started you on it, they must have had a good reason. Right? So this is something else that we're seeing is that as more people are like getting cross coverage, people are less likely to take patients off of medication. And then you get passed around from person to person to person, you end up on like five meds. So when it comes to bipolar disorder, you know, if you're trying to think about, okay, can I stop medication? The other thing to consider is that bipolar disorder, remember, is mood fluctuations over time. And if you're thinking about stopping medication, you need to be super, super, super careful, because this is what I tend to see. So let's say that we've got our four domains. Okay? So someone comes in and says, Dr. K, I want to stop my meds. And this is where I'd say, okay, like, let's talk about that, right? Let's try to understand which meds should you stop and which meds should you not stop? Well, okay, what's bothering you the most? I'm sleepy all the time and I'm gaining weight. Okay, fantastic. What we're going to do, let's stop the olanzapine. But I still don't like the way that the lithium makes me feel. I feel less energetic. Okay, well, let's think about that, right? So you've been doing well without being hospitalized, without getting fired, without anything for one year. And now you feel perfectly fine, because you're not having manic episodes, you're not having depressive episodes, your life seems to be going well. And if I'm feeling well, why do I need the medication? Right? And this is the key thing. Maybe the reason you continue to feel well is because the lithium is on board. So this is another really important thing to understand about bipolar disorders. When we think about medications, we think about medications as fixing something that's messed up, which makes total sense for the acute mania and the acute depressive sides. Right? Now that I'm feeling better, I don't need the olanzapine. Totally fine. I'm with you. You don't need the olanzapine. Let's take it off. But the key thing to remember about bipolar disorder is that some of the medication is responsible for you feeling normal. And what people want to do is they want to stop the medication when they're feeling normal. I'm feeling fine now. Why do I need the medication? That's why you feel fine, because you're getting the medication. And so you really have to be careful about especially taking off the preventive mania and the preventive depression medication. There are still good ways to do that. We'll talk about that in a second. But another example of this, which I see, which is completely unrelated to bipolar disorder, just to give you all an analogy. So I've had patients, I worked for a while as an addiction psychiatrist. So I had patients who were sober for six months. And they're like, yeah, I've been sober for six months. I don't even think about alcohol anymore. I think I'm going to stop going to meetings. And so I'm going to stop seeing my therapist. I'm going to stop going to alcoholics anonymous meetings. And then what happens three months later? They relapse. So one thing that I strongly, strongly ask you all to consider, if you're on any kind of psychiatric treatment regimen, if you're feeling too good today, don't stop the stuff that got you here. Right? You don't go to the gym for two years, look at yourself in the mirror and be like, wow, I'm really fit. Time to stop going to the gym because I've got it under control now. Maintaining your mental health is an ongoing kind of thing. And I have tapered people and taken patients with bipolar disorder off of medication before. It's actually very possible, depending on the patient stuff, but that's where frankly, people who get off of medication usually need to be a lot more disciplined in their regular life. So in my opinion, the most important treatment for bipolar disorder is no medication is not a medication, but asleep. The patients who sleep well do so, so, so much better because lack of sleep is one of the triggers for a manic episode. Also messes with depression. So this is the kind of thing where like when people come off of bipolar disorder medication, I oftentimes find that they need a more disciplined lifestyle and it's actually harder to manage. So it is possible, right? And ultimately like patients, like it's your body, right? So you should be dictating the treatment. But when it comes to medication, I would be super, super careful about stopping your maintenance medication, but by all means be aggressive about stopping your acute treatment stuff if you're no longer acutely ill. So this is a really common misconception that people have when it comes to bipolar disorder, which is that everyone sort of like starts to get better and then they want to stop their medication, which makes perfect sense. Right now that I'm feeling better, like why do I need the medication anymore? Right? We only take medication when we're sick because that's how our system of medicine tends to be set up. Like you don't just take chemotherapy because you're feeling well. You take chemotherapy when you've got cancer. You take acetaminophen when you've got a fever, right? You take antibiotics when you've got an infection. You take blood pressure medication when your blood pressure is high. But with bipolar disorder, there are four discrete roles of medication, acute treatment of mania, acute treatment of depression, prevention of mania, and prevention of depression. And so when it comes to stopping particular medications, what I tend to find is that a lot of people can feel like they're confused the acute mania and acute depression treatments with the prevention of mania and prevention of depression treatments. Not only do patients not understand this, unfortunately a lot of times providers don't or doctors don't, providers, right, because they're more than doctors, don't really understand this as well. And I tend to find that especially there are some providers who are very, very algorithmic with their thinking. Like if patient walks in with this disease, you treat with this medicine. It's like a very, very simple logic. But in my experience, that actually doesn't lead, work out precisely correct in that you should always have a thoughtful clinician who's really thinking about, okay, what do each of these medications do for you? And when it comes to stopping them, I think for acute treatments, it's important to actually try to stop those to minimize side effects and things like that. But for your maintenance medications, especially if you're doing well and you've been doing well for like, let's say a year or two, I would seriously consider staying on it just so that you can get some stability under your belt. Because just when you're putting your life together, you don't want to fall back into a depression that's six months long. If you're like a junior in college and you like have to repeat one year and now you're kind of like getting everything together, your GPA is going up and stuff like that, I understand that medications have side effects. I'm not saying that they're pleasant or not hard to deal with, but sometimes it's actually worth it to stay on the medication so that you can actually like graduate from college. Because the last thing you need is to start your senior year, get depressed again, and lose another six months. And now you have to be in college for six years instead of five. So is that worth going off of the medication? Sometimes not really. So I'd encourage all of you all to think a little bit about when you're on medication to really think about, okay, what is the goal of each of these medications? And if you don't know why you're taking a medicine, I strongly, strongly encourage you to talk to your doctor about it. And ask them like, why am I on all this stuff? Like this stuff is hard for me to take. I want to come off. What do you think about that? And really listen for some kind of like nuanced explanation, right? Because they should have good clinical reasoning for the medications that they provide. And if they can't provide that, then I would really challenge that, even consider getting a second opinion. Because sometimes we'll see these like medication lists from hell. Just like we're on six medications for bipolar disorder. Like why on earth are you on these six medications? And at that point, people just start feeling better if you like start taking them off of medications. Like they've got so many mood stabilizers on there that their mood is completely flattened. So unfortunately, this is something that I'm seeing more and more, where people are just coming in with piles of medications. Does it mean that you should go off of all of them, which is oftentimes what patients end up doing, right? Because you're so frustrated. Because you're tired of being all of this crap. And then you just stop it all. And how are you supposed to know if I'm on five medications, how am I supposed to know which ones are safe to stop and which ones aren't? I don't. I go talk to my doctor. My doctor's kind of like, eh. And then I decide to take them all off. And then my depression comes back. Mania comes back. And then I'm kind of like back to square one. I've lost so much ground. So I strongly encourage you all to understand what the medications you're taking are. Understand what particular goal the medication has. And talk to your doctor about all that stuff. And really try to figure out, OK, what's the right regimen for you from a risk benefit analysis, right? Even if there are some side effects, what is the minimum amount of medication I need to take in order to be able to accomplish the goals that are really important for me? Because ultimately, that's what medication is for, right? Medication is there to help you live the life that you want, not get in the way of living the life that you want. Sometimes you got to make trade-offs. But those trade-offs should always be intentional and thoughtful. So now we'll open things up to questions. Yeah, so the bone zone is saying, I'm seeing a nurse practitioner or psychiatrist. They just prescribe whatever, but I'm too poor to see a good doctor. That's unfortunately, I mean, that is both unfortunate and sometimes common. So I think that this is kind of like an issue where I think we're seeing that there's a shortage of medical providers. So a lot of times people will see not doctors, which is not necessarily a bad thing. I mean, I've worked with a ton of nurse practitioners. A lot of them are really good. And unfortunately, like a lot of them aren't. And that too, I don't necessarily blame the nurse practitioners. It's just the kind of training that they get is very different. And furthermore, sometimes what you'll see, I've seen this before too, where you'll have a psychiatrist who will be overseeing a dozen nurse practitioners, but like doesn't actually do any oversight. They just collect a check every single week. So, I mean, it's not like doctors aren't complicit in this kind of stuff too. It just depends on, you know, and so Warhammer, which is saying my NP rocks, I've worked with, so one of the people who inspired me to go into psychiatry was a nurse practitioner, just absolutely awesome nurse practitioner who was on the transplant service at the medical school that I went to Tuftsburg Medical School. And she was just really awesome and just an awesome clinician, really thoughtful, taught me so much. And I've seen a lot of nurse practitioners that are not that thoughtful as well. I've seen doctors that way too, for example. I remember working with one doctor at a community health center who was like, would see like seven patients an hour, spend less than five minutes with each one, and would not really listen to what people have to say. So I think just keep looking for good practitioners. Other questions? Are SSRIs actually effective clinically? I think so. So I think that if y'all, if we're talking about SSRIs, y'all have to remember a couple of things. So when we do studies on things like SSRIs, we're look SSRIs are antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications for the most part. So remember that we're taking like a thousand people, and we're looking at, we're averaging the response amongst those thousand people. So the problem with that is that in that thousand people, so let's say there's like a 30% improvement across a thousand people. The thing though is if you look at data on SSRIs, they're more effective for people who are more severely ill. And so what my experience has been is in that thousand people, there are actually three groups. There's about a third of people, let's say 300 people, who respond really, really well to SSRIs, and it like is transformative for them. There's a third of people for whom like it seems to help some, right? So like I'm getting something, but it's not like a life-changing medication for me. And then there's a third of people for whom it kind of doesn't work. And then once we average all those people together, what we end up with is a 30% improvement. But clinically what I tend to see is not a 30% improvement. I see drastic improvements, moderate improvements, or no improvements. Right? And there's even data that suggests that you can switch SSRIs like two times, and you can still get a good treatment response. So the first SSRI may not work, the second SSRI may not work, the third SSRI could still work. But after you've tried a trial of three, usually the likelihood that the fourth, fifth, sixth will work is quite low. You can't take SSRIs when you're bipolar, right? That's not necessarily true. So there are some regional variabilities there about thinking. So like, you know, based on some European colleagues that I've worked with, they're more likely to prescribe SSRIs to people who are bipolar. The key thing is that generally speaking, in the U.S., what's going to happen is if you get started on an SSRI, you may need an anti-manic preventive agent as well. So that's a good example of why you may need two medications, right? Because the SSRI works so well for you on the depression, you may need something else to keep you from becoming manic. So Warhammer, which is saying SSRI combined with low-dose antipsychotic helped fix 20-plus years of severe depression. I've seen that too. So sometimes the antipsychotic medications will also be used as adjunctive treatments for depression. And Walls of Gab is saying, I take an SSRI with bipolar, but mine has to be with a mood stabilizer or all zinc. That's a very common experience too. So by the way, I really appreciate everyone in chat kind of weighing in, just because I think these are like, these are good stories, right? So for, if you're listening to this, like, recognize that there are people out there who have, it's taken some time, but they found the right medication for them and they're doing well for years afterward. Bernardo Rocha Nunez is saying, I enjoy the personal experience of hypomania. Most people do, my dude. Most people do. That's what makes it so hard to treat, right? It's hard to treat something that you love. Grandelma is asking, should I talk to my doc about switching SSRIs if my current one makes me feel emotionally numb? Answer is absolutely. So I'll give you all a quick tip. Should I talk to my doctor about dot dot dot dot dot? Doesn't matter what comes after that. The answer is always yes. Pretty much. I don't know about 100%, but 99% chance is yes. I don't think I can think of a single time where I did not like that my patient asked me about something relating to their treatment, right? Even for the people who are hypochondriacs and will have like million, million, million questions, right? It's my job to help them go work through that kind of stuff. Yes, I think someone is trolling me. So scary printer sounds, should I talk to my doctor about how birds aren't real? So this is where you may be trolling, but honestly, I would love to have a car like if my patient thought birds were not real, I would love to hear about it. Right? That's got to be one of the most interesting conversations that I mean, people can ask me about like whether lithium is the right drug for them and whether they should be on an SSRI as much as they want to. But honestly, the reason I'm in the profession is for questions like that. Why can't there be more psychiatrists as well informed as you are? I know why it just sucks. There isn't. So a couple of things to keep in mind. So the first thing to understand is that when it comes to medical providers, we sometimes think of people as like good doctors or bad doctors or good nurse practitioners or bad nurse practitioners. My experience has been that, first of all, there's a fluctuation in terms of our performance as well. Right? So like y'all are catching me on like noon on a weekday where I'm not burnt out. I haven't, I don't have 45 patients scheduled in my clinic over the next two days. So a lot of times like it's not just that there are good doctors and bad doctors, but there are good doctor days and there are bad doctors and bad doctors, but there are good doctor days and bad doctor days. And you may just catch your doctor on a bad day or nurse practitioner for that matter. Right? So like that, like you just have to try to remember that. And especially when it comes to mental health practitioners, like we're all overworked and burnt out because the demand is just so high and there's just not enough providers out there. The last thing to consider is that I do think that training could be improved quite a bit. Right? So like part of the reason that I know what I know, like I, you know, I didn't learn this stuff. The kind of doctor I am is actually a credit to my teachers. So these are people at like Tufts Medical School that inspired me to go into psychiatry. Right? So I did like two or three months of psychiatry there and then four years of training at Harvard. And like my teachers were amazing. And so why can't more doctors quote unquote be like me? So first of all, we've got to make sure that they're taken care of. Right? They're not burnt out. They're not overworked. They don't have some clinic director who's pushing them to see 20% more patients so that we see we make 20% more money. There's a lot of stuff that is not ideal in the medical profession. And then the last thing is that I do think that there are unfortunately some institutions out there that offer very low quality training. And that's just kind of how it is. Like, unfortunately, that I do think that's the case. And this is this isn't I mean, I think the majority of places offer pretty good training, but there are a lot of places that will like, pump people out and really just minimize the amount of oversight and clinical thinking that they sort of have. So slow mark is saying my doctor doesn't want to answer my questions about why she switched my xypraxidocerequil. Should I keep asking or just change doctor? She said I have to trust her, but it's kind of lame. I would I would push for that. Like you're putting this stuff in your body, I think it's you're very entitled to a clinical reason for the change. I'd like to understand your clinical reasoning for the medication change. That is the the phrase that I would use. Now you have to be a little bit careful because you really got to listen to what they say. Because sometimes what will happen is the patient won't be listening. Right, so you've got to be careful about that too. Where maybe the doctor has already answered your question. So you've got to the other question you can ask is can you help me understand why you're reluctant to explain it to me? So that's you have to invite your doctor to also say hey, like the reason I'm not giving you explanations is because when I give you explanations, you zone out, you don't pay attention and you don't seem to really care what I say. I've been in that situation as well. Where people are just sort of like unhappy and no amount of clinical reasoning seems to be like processed at all. So you can even ask them what's your reluctance to explain it to me? Do you find that I'm receptive or not? So I think it's important for you to trust your doctor. That's absolutely true. You should trust your doctor. But trust should not be a substitute for explanation and clinical reasoning. Does that make sense? Like those things should not like it's not that's not like a truth like it's like not an either or. Does that make sense? It's not like a multiple choice question where you get to pick trust or clinical reasoning or communicating with your doctor. Those should not be exclusive. They should be hand in hand. My therapist wants me out of antidepressants because she thinks I must change my view of myself as a mental patient but my psychiatrist tells me to wait more time before stopping to take them. Any advice? Yeah, so a couple things. One is that if your therapist and your psychiatrist are giving you contrary advice, they should talk to each other. They should be talking to each other in general. And the second thing is I would ask your therapist what they think about antidepressants in general because one of the really unfortunate things is that a lot of therapists are not or most therapists are not trained in psychopharmacology. So they don't many of them don't you know it's just not a part of their training so they don't prescribe medications. So you've got to be really careful. Like I personally think so I'm sort of like so I tend to be all about holistic medicine and all that good stuff but I think science is important and data is important. And the therapist may have a good reason for saying what they kind of say. But you know I think that like this is really something that your clinicians should be talking about. You can also ask them for their understanding of like view of myself as a mental patient. I don't know if you view yourself as a mental patient but that can be harmful. you