 I am really struggling with something. I don't want to talk about it. But before I do, I need people, if you are a parent who was like touched out by your children, I do not want to see you in the comments. If you are someone with any kind of neurodivergency and it manifests or shows up as you not liking touch or people touching you, I do not want to see you in the comments. But I am, I feel like I'm dying from like touch starvation. I don't, this isn't, I don't, I don't get hugs. I don't know. I feel like if I were to get the kind of hug that I fucking really want, I would crumble into pieces. How do you deal with that? I really like need to be like touched. And I know someone's going to say like, okay, go to the salon and get your hair done or get a massage or, or get your nails done. Right. So you tell them you can hold your hand. None of those people love me. None of those people, none of those services love me. Right. But I am really, I'm really struggling. I'm really struggling with like, I don't get hugs. That shit is, it could be like maybe a hello, you know, whatever, maybe. But it's not enough. I don't know how, I don't know how you, how am I going to go the rest of my life like this? I'm just really struggling. I'm really struggling. Like I spent like last night just going like this. 20 minutes. I'm just, if anyone else is struggling, what are you, what are you doing? Okay. That is some heavy stuff. And I hate to say this, but I think she is spot on. I think she's really tapped into something that I think we've sort of struggled with. So let's like start by understanding a couple of things. The first is that this is not a isolated experience. I also think something that a lot of people don't realize is that this is also not like a gendered experience. The other really interesting thing is even if you talk about some of the stuff around like neurodivergence and people who don't like to be touched, I've heard a lot of people who are neurodivergent and don't like to be touched, but are also starved for touch. They're still longing for it. And they're in some ways like in an even trickier situation because their body, and we'll talk about this in a second, needs exactly what everybody else needs, but their somatosensory cortex doesn't even allow them to engage in it. So like what's going on here? So I think what we're seeing, so we've seen that there's a loneliness epidemic. Some indicators of mental illness are getting way worse than they ever have before. The percentage of people who have never been in a romantic relationship is rising astronomically. The percentage of people who have never had sexual relations is also rising astronomically. The number of people who have never had a friend or have zero friends is also rising. So I think this is going to be kind of weird. Like we're going to talk about science for a second, but I think this goes like way further than science. So the first thing is let's talk about the physiology of like touch starvation, and there is a ton of physiology to it. So, and it's not just oxytocin. So there's one hormone that's kind of like our bonding hormone. This is oxytocin. So oxytocin is what's released when we like cuddle with other people. Like when like we look at parent-child bonding, and when you like cuddle with something, like you get a spurt of oxytocin. Oxytocin does things like calms down your nervous system, reduces your stress hormone response. It's kind of like inversely proportional. And so like literally a hug makes us feel better. It's not just a subjective experience, it's a physiologic experience. These signals are also what allows us to be in love and to feel love. So when you cuddle with someone, there's oxytocin, and you feel love, it creates a loving bond between two people. But it's way more than oxytocin. So there are studies on touch deprivation. And the scary thing is that these studies used to be done in orphans. We used to have to go to an orphanage to find a group of people who were starved for physical touch, and we'd study them, these orphans in Romania. Now if we want to do a study on touch deprivation, where do we go? The average person. We no longer need to go to orphanages to find people who are starved for touch. It's a society where it's become the norm. So we see changes in cardiovascular outcomes. We even see changes in things like hemoglobin A1c. So people who are starved for touch, their diabetes is worse. We see, of course, changes with things like cortisol, mental health parameters like depression and anxiety. But when a human being gets touched, it does way more than oxytocin. And this is what's also interesting. There was one study that took patients and shocked them with electrical shocks. We administered electrical shocks to patients. There were three groups of people. One group was by themselves. One group was holding hands with a stranger. Third group was holding hands with a loved one. And the perception of pain, the way that the pain was traveled to the brain, the way it was interpreted by the brain, the brain's response to getting electrically shocked changes and is blunted and attenuated by human contact and especially by human contact from a loved one. It literally makes the experience of life less painful. Like literally. It's not like some like, oh, like it may like it's easy to be no like literally there's like the the perception and response to a simple electrical shock is attenuated by holding hands with a loved one. And what are we seeing? We're seeing worsening like diabetes. We're seeing worsening inflammatory issues. Everyone's going gluten free and keto diet. Like why? What's happening with society? Why is everyone so prone to inflammation? Why is everyone so damn starved for touch? There are two things that have happened. The first is that our society has become increasingly independent. We've decided that independence is king in the way that what we should strive for is independence, financial independence, emotional independence. The thought of being interdependent with someone else is something that we call weakness. So if you think about a problem in your life, what does everyone tell you to do with problems in your life? Fix them, right? You should fix it. It's your responsibility. If you're broke, it's your fault. On the flip side, what we'll also do is we'll blame society. And so we'll say it's society's fault that you're broke. And both both angles are correct, but both angles are missing something else, which is that when I hear you complain about, oh, you're homeless, that's society's problem or it's your problem. You know whose problem it isn't? It's not mine. It's not mine. So in our strive for independence, each individual in the world has absolved themselves of the responsibility of caring for other human beings because it's society's problem. It's the government's problem, or it's your problem. You need to go to therapy. You need to get help. You need to start meditating. And by the way, if you need to meditate, guess what? There's an app for that. You can do it all on your own. How is meditation? How did it used to be taught? People used to go to ashrams. They used to sit in a gigantic hall and meditate together. So we've decided that independence is king. We've decided that the needs of the individual surpass the needs of the community. And we've outsourced the needs of the community to institutions like governments. The second thing that we've done is technology. And we've decided through technology that we're going to meet all of your needs without needing to interact with another human being. So you want to meet people? There's an app for that. You can do it on your phone. You don't have to leave your four walls. You need food? There's an app for that. You don't have to leave your four walls. You don't have to go talk to another, interact with another human being. Good God. Now, even if you look at ride sharing apps, they have an option on ride sharing apps. We are so tired of interacting with other human beings. We can't take a conversation. So now I can select something on my app that says don't talk to me. Heaven forbid you're talking to me. What's wrong with you? You're talking to me. I did not invite you to talk to me or interact with me. And heaven forbid that you touch me in any way. When I was training to be a psychiatrist, we had this whole segment on touching patients. And it's a good segment, right? You have to be super careful about when you touch another human being and what that means. And one of my supervisors told me never touch a patient. It is not allowed within the psychoanalytic. And it's like, that was hard for me. And I listened to them, right? Because there's someone who's crying in your office and like, what do I want to do? I want to give them a hug. But we're not allowed to do that, right? Because they need to manage those emotions on their own. Heaven forbid you hug them. And there's good reasons for that, okay? So like, it's smart. So I talked to other people, right? And I said, hey, this is like hard for me. Help me understand. And they said a lot of brilliant things. So the first question is, if it's hard for you to hug a patient, that's about you. You should never hug a patient because it's hard for you to not hug a patient because then you're putting yourself ahead of the patient. Brilliant. I shouldn't hug people to make me feel better. And if I feel like an asshole for not hugging someone, I should not do something to a patient that alleviates me feeling like an asshole. Brilliant, actually. So there's a lot of good stuff in there. But I also talked to people about, is it okay to hug patients? And sometimes I hug my patients, but there's a way to do it in therapy, right? You talk to them about it. You say, hey, like, what does it mean to you? What does it mean to me? Like, what does this mean for us? We explore what that means. But in the rest of society, we don't touch people anymore. I'm not saying go out there and touch people. But like, you can invite someone, right? You can ask people like, hey, you need a hug today? Like, you can do that. I think this is what's so challenging is then like, then we get into a whole other can of worms, which is like a good can of worms, like in the sense that it's valid. Because if you go around, you're asking people if they want hugs, they're gonna call you a creep, they're gonna call cops. And so somewhere along the way, we become so independent that touching other people makes us uncomfortable. Like, we don't even know how to do that anymore. And this is what you end up with a society of people who are disconnected. Because by the way, if you need friends, there's discord. If you want to talk to someone, you can chat, right? And you know what, I hear you're feeling down. Let me send you an emoji of two people hugging. That's what we've come to. We've stopped hugging each other. And we've started sending emojis of people hugging. Like, what the fuck? We've created substitutes for human needs. It's not actually fulfilling the need. It's a substitute. I recently learned that there's a virtual girlfriend app. Don't have a girlfriend? Here you go. Right? And now we can get human shaped pillows, and we can even get sexual devices, and we can, we can substitute a relationship in so many different ways. And it's only a matter of time before someone takes chat GPT and outsources an API to make a virtual girlfriend who adapts to you and learns like a human intelligence. Substitutes, substitutes, substitutes, substitutes. And why? Because the individual humans today don't want to give people what they need. It's not society. It's like each and every one of us. This is what's happening. Right? And there are a lot of people out there who are, you know, as we're watching this, are like somewhat like, give that lady a hug. And that's what I felt too. But this is the other problem. Like it's great that we had that emotional reaction and that she was wrong. She shared her experience that resonated with a ton of people, but just think for a second at what it takes to get someone to hug that person. She's literally got to put something on TikTok that explodes. And that's the threshold for human contact. That's, that's the hurdle. She has to jump to get a hug. We've got to lower the threshold to help other human beings. And so like, what do we do about this situation? Right? I think it's like pretty simple. We've got to be careful about using technology as a substitute for human needs. Can technology be used as a tool to fulfill human needs? Absolutely. But it's crossing the line into substituting and trying to provide the needs in and of themselves. Second thing that we've got to do is we've got to start stop blaming people for their problems and stop blaming society for their problems. We've got to start blaming ourselves for other people's problems, which runs completely alien. Right? And that's like literally why I started streaming because I was like, you know what? I can do more for people. It's not about like, I got frustrated with like certain institutions that are related to my profession and I thought they weren't doing enough. And they're like good reasons for that. Right? They were like busy with other things like opioid epidemics that were literally killing people. And this was these like dormant problems or subsurface, not dormant. And so y'all can, the only way this works, I can't do it by myself. I can't even do 1% of the work that needs to be done because what people need is hugs. Like I can't hug everyone on the planet. I want to. There's a part of me that really wants to. I think it'd be cool. But like, I can't do this. I can stream on Twitch. I can talk to y'all. But like what, how close can you and I really get? The only way this works is if we start accepting responsibility, like we as individuals start accepting responsibility for the needs of the human beings around us. And that's hard because if you start doing that, it can be painful for you. And so that's just the, that's the core of the problem. Because what's happened in our society is we've decided we move further and further along the road of if it's painful for me and it benefits someone else, I don't have to do it. And I actually agree with you there. You don't have to do it. No one else is entitled to your sacrifice. But that's the problem with society is like people are trying to, there's a group of people that's trying to, that feel entitled to the love of others. That's not right. And on the flip side, if we're not entitled to the love of others, can we still give it? Can we still receive it? Like that's the thing is like no one, no one is forcing you. I don't think it's fair to force you. But the only way this works is if we actually step up as a group of people and we start caring about other human beings.