 The ultimate way to come up for air is a dick joke. That's yeah, it's a tie a dick joke into my dad's death would be phenomenal. Yeah, I'll come up with one rigor mortis, who knows? That's right. There. Look at how easy it is. Hey, man. Hey, how's it going? Does my camera work for you and all that? It does work for me. So many things about what I see work for me. That's I'd love to hear that. Let's enter it. It's not centered. OK. No. All right, we're money. All right, there we go. It's nice. So you go by Ludwig. It's yeah, it's supposed to be Ludwig, but I go by Ludwig. Yeah. And what would you prefer that I call you today? I go with Ludwig. Yeah. Ludwig. OK. Ludwig's great. So Ludwig, thanks for coming on. I really appreciate it, especially. Is that a deathly Hallows water bottle? It is. It is. I can't take credit. It is my girlfriend's, but a quick pick up. Yeah, you get to you get to take credit for having a girlfriend who has a deathly Hallows water bottle, though. That was the plan all along. All right. I wouldn't have dated her if she didn't have the water bottle. Yeah, that's that's dope, man. So, you know, thanks for coming on. I really appreciate it, especially today, because we are doing a fundraiser for chalk. And I understand that you're a pretty big deal in the Twitch community. So thank you very much for offering your time. Well, absolutely. You know, a big deal seems flattering, but, you know, this seems like a cool charity. I like Gamers for Chalk. Yeah, I heard you talking about it. It sounds really nice. Yeah. So hopefully we can help them out a little bit. Is there something in particular that you were hoping to talk about today or anything that any questions or anything that I can potentially help you with? You know, I have a couple of topics that that came to mind. I don't feel like I have like, you know, compared to most, maybe as deserving of a spot on the show. Like like my girlfriend, actually, I think she came on cutie. I don't know if you remember, it was a bit ago. You know, she she got she got the bag. She got anxiety, depression, the whole works. And I feel pretty good, you know, like it or fortunate, I should say that, you know, I don't have personal problems that I think that I know of that I feel the need to talk to, but maybe broader subjects like it talk about parasocial relationships a lot on stream. Sure. And and I'm sure you have some some sage them about it. And then. The only other thing is death. I figured you probably know what happens after we die. And I wanted to ask at some point. Sure. So I let's man. Well said. So I really, first of all, appreciate how you kind of laid out how you're thinking about coming on stream. And the first thing that I want to say is that I think you are just as deserving as anyone else. And I think that. Part of the problem, I think that we sometimes get into on stream is that we tend to overemphasize people's struggles. And really, we're not. And that gets like, I think, a little bit too close to psychiatry. So like part of actually what I really like about, you know, understanding the mind and understanding like life and understanding yourself is that it's not necessarily pathology focused. So I think that's where we just, you know, a lot of people need help and we're here to help people. But I think like understanding, having conversations around death or having conversations even about what you deserve and what you don't deserve. And do people who struggle with anxiety, quote, unquote, deserve more than you do? I think those are actually really important conversations, too. And I love talking about death. Cool. So, yeah, I don't. You love that. Sure. All right. Yeah, that's how I love talking about most things. Sure. I guess that makes sense for you. And yeah, so what do you want to do? You want to talk a little bit more about, you know, sort of deserving the spot or are we kind of done with that and we can dive right in? I feel fine about it. Just wanted to just lighten out. So I think because the other way to think about it, Ludwig, is like if we are going to talk about parasocial relationships and death, really, the goal of stream is to, you know, help one person hopefully understand something. But really, the goal is to like talk about things that would benefit our audience. And, you know, I think these two things, like if we have a conversation about these two things, I have to imagine that a lot of people will appreciate it and will benefit from it. So I think it's totally cool. Yeah, makes sense. I'm on board. So we started with parasocial relationships or death. I think you're supposed to end with death. So parasocial it is. OK. So tell me what is and I may not have sage advice, because I think you guys probably know more about this than I do. So can you tell me what a parasocial relationship is? OK, yeah. So well, yeah, basically it is, you know, a one way relationship with with someone. And and I think that's the gist of it. But the way I understand it is basically people who form relationships with me, their streamer, even though I can't give anything back personally. And then, you know, they might gain too much of an attachment. You know, a lot of people say things like I love you and and and basically treat me as a friend and I can't reciprocate. OK. And and what do you think about that? You know, I've always been pretty chill with it because I kind of grew up on YouTube and and I feel like I grew up pretty fine. But my my roommate slime always seemed very concerned about it. And and then I think as I grew a bit, I was like, huh, you know, this can be a bit problematic because I think my viewership started getting a bit younger and and I guess more impressionable. And I just think that especially at the end of the day, especially now that COVID people are on Twitch so much that, you know, they sometimes forgo IRL relationships for online ones with people that can reciprocate. What's wrong with that? I don't think there's anything inherently wrong with online relationships. I think that. I see myself being like I read my DMS and the DMS people send me it. Feels like it's I don't know if I want to say crossing a line, but I'm not the guy for the job a lot of the time. And they're using me as the guy for the job and I can't fulfill the role. What's the job? Help me understand. Like, hey. This is going on. Do you have any advice? You know, I. I don't know what to do for my major. Any basically piece of advice or. Just try to talk to someone who will listen even like you would with a friend, they they might with me. And. I can't answer of them all because there's a lot. Sure. And of course, and I have in the past a bit, but, you know, then it gets. Weird, too, because I don't and I'm not particularly in. Like involved in the person's life, so I don't know the whole thing, so. Sure. So basically that, yeah, that makes sense. How do you think that these relations, why do they DM you for advice about what they should major in? How do you understand that? I don't know. I don't particularly know why I'm the first. Maybe I've thought about this a bit because people do it for advice. They also do it for like maybe just like money straight up or they do it just for like like they'll ask you for money. Yeah. Or just simple pleasantries or like terms of endearment. And I I think it's. Maybe a mixture of a shot in the dark, and maybe it's just easier to say it to me first, if that makes sense. Yeah, like if you understand that, say it to you first. Like if you were going to be like, you know, if I was broke, imagine I'm broke as hell and you're my good friend. And like I've come to you before, and I don't want to be like, yo, Dr. K, can you just slap me a thousand? Like, it's easier to just ask random man on the Internet who probably will ignore it. But there's a chance I'll answer and at least like practice how I'm going to say this before I go to you. Yeah, sure. So why do you think it's easier to approach the random man on the Internet? Because you don't think they'll respond. Yeah, that's kind of interesting, but I also think devastating because what you're suggesting and I think this is true is that sometimes it's easiest to take the chances that we know have the highest likelihood of failure. Yeah, yeah, I think people do that a lot. They do do that a lot. People who like send me emails with a resume being like, can I be an editor? I feel like it's the absolute minimum you could do, but still doing something. Yeah. Yeah. And and. You also mentioned it early on, something about I love you, you know, and what do you think? What do you think people what do you think your viewers? What how do they view their relationship with you? Well, that's what I'm concerned about. You know, I would hope it is like, you know, like YouTube was for me as a kid or like any show is, I guess, like a little form of entertainment you can hop online to and maybe pull some character traits for me that you like and get some laughs. But that's kind of the extent of it. Is that what YouTube was for you? Entertainment? It was entertainment and some like life lessons. Yeah, I would say it was both of those things. But I wouldn't say it was like, you know, a source of friendship or camaraderie or anything. So I'm hearing you kind of if I were to infer, I'd say that you didn't really form parasocial relationships with the YouTubers that you watched. I like to think I didn't. I could be wrong, but I imagine I didn't. Did you ever tell a YouTuber that you love them? I don't think so. It's also just weirder in a YouTube comment. Sure. Did you ever tell a YouTuber, did you ask them to for a job? No, I did send a YouTuber my YouTube videos asking for advice. Oh, shit. And they got it. Oh, sorry. No, we. Oh, my God, you got a thousand dollar donation. Yeah. By anonymous and five hundred dollars from Chewbacca. Sorry, we'll get we'll get to donations in a second. I don't want to. You should cut me off for a rack. That's fair. Thank you guys very much for supporting chalk. Yes. Good job. 11K here we come. Anyway, you were saying that you never asked them for a job, but you maybe did ask for advice. I might have asked for a job. You know, when you're 16, I definitely have asked for jobs in a lazy fashion before 100 percent. But I do vividly remember asking for advice on a YouTube video I made when I was 16 from like a larger YouTuber. And he actually replied. Which was hype. He said kind of funny jokes, but shit quality set up. That's what he said. Yeah. And reply. What was your question? I heard that. No, it was like, do you have any advice on like my YouTube videos? Because I sent him a video I had made. I saw your thoughts in this video. And how did that make you feel when you responded? It I think didn't matter. I think didn't matter because I had already quit at that point, but I thought it was cool that he replied for sure. What was cool about that? That he took the time for a young 16 year old boy. Yeah. So we're going to point something out. What did you just do? Thanks to the anonymous donator, we're in conjunction with you and brought up a story about. You know, addiction. Yeah. So so so like you just change your voice a little bit. Uh huh. Right. Yeah. And yeah, I kind of made a joke out of it. You're like, yeah. Oh, like was nice for a 16 year old boy. I'm not going to be live on TV. You know, I can stop if it makes no you're so good. You're so good. I did do that. Yeah. What? How do you understand why you did that? Uh, how I made the voice. You make it more spicy. No, no, no. I mean, but why did you make the voice in that moment? A little flair. Yeah. But why flair at that point? I completely agree. It's flair. You're cracking a joke. You're making it a little bit funny. Well, why then? Because I guess it was a bit. I was a bit goofy that I just laughing. You got me. It was a bit goofy that the whole entire situation, but it's something I look maybe fondly back on. Yep. But, you know. Yeah. Yes. So it's kind of interesting because I think actually like what you're doing is lightening, I think, the significance of it. OK. Yeah. Why did I do that? So I think it we can get to that in a second. I just let's notice it first. Right. So we start with observations and then like we can develop hypotheses down the road. The more data we collect, the more accurate. Right. But like I think that sometimes people feel uncomfortable. If I had to venture, sometimes like people feel uncomfortable, like talking about things that are impactful to them. And so what we do is we like make light of it. Gosh. OK. Right. Yeah. Well, yeah, I just don't like bringing too much gravity to gravity to to things that surround me. Usually I like to keep it light, fluffy. Yeah. Perhaps that's it. Yeah. So so then if you if you really want to go off the rails, what what makes it hard for you to sit with gravity? Like, you know, important things. Well, you know, gravity comes with a bit of weight and I don't like throwing weight around. I like throwing light and fluffy. It's a little more fun, a little easier. Yep. Absolutely. It's fun. It's easier. Serious. I'm I'm with you. So now I'm going to give you a choice, Ludwig. We can dig into that. We can go off on that tangent, but that tangent is going to be a little bit more personal. But I also want to fully respect, you know, what you want to do and what you don't want to do. We're going to ignore Twitter. Don't care about what they think. It's not about that. I go down the road, Dr. Kay. No, we don't. We have to. No, I want to. Do you feel beholden to? And yeah, OK, what does that word mean? So do you feel obligated to? Or do you really want to? I think it's a more hype road to go down, and that's what I'd prefer. OK, why do you choose the hype road? Well, because when it's hype, it's more fun. It would be regrettable to not pick a hype decision. Yeah. So so once again, you gravitate towards fun and lightheartedness. See, it's happening right now. You're doing it again. No, it's just like it's something that's hype. Like like I could I could go down the road that I had predetermined. And then I could think a week later, like, damn, maybe Dr. Kay had some shit to say, like he probably had some bars to drop. And I didn't like go for the bars. Is it OK to not go for the bars? Sometimes, yes, but if you can and it's not that problematic, why not? OK, cool. So if you want to go down the road enough of a man. Oh, shit. Lost my pen. And I feel the yeah. You do it too, Dr. Kay. Way to make a lighthearted joke in the moment. No, I mean, I seriously my fingers are slippery, which is a whole different discussion. But I'm supposed to ask you about Coomers at some point, too. Oh, geez. OK, sure. Speaking of making things lighthearted. But so so tell me what I mean, do you you know, were you always kind of the joker? Yeah, for sure. Class clown. Can you tell me a little bit about that? Um, yeah, you know, I I remember started third grade. We had I think it was called Brambling. Were you right for like 15 minutes uninterrupted? You're not allowed to not write. You can write whatever. And then at the end of it, you could volunteer to share. And I shared my parody of the book. My brother, Sam is dead. You remember that one? Mm hmm. It was about civil war. And I called it my brother's slam is dead. And I had this hilarious joke where slam his mother told him to take a shower and wash dishes like a mother would. And he and then he says, like as a narrator, he's like, and then I wash the dishes and took a shower at the same time. And everybody thought it was the funniest thing ever. And ever since then, I've just been on a high road. I just ride that high. What is that high? They all laughed. They thought it was funny. It was a classic good one. And how did that make you feel? Ten out of ten. It was a banger, a certified good one, live in front of all the people, my class and my crush and the cool teacher. Sounds amazing. Did I do the voice again? Yeah, it was amazing. It was good. Yeah. And it sounds like you've been chasing that high ever since. Mm hmm. Mm hmm. Is that why you is that kind of how you can you tell us how you got into streaming? Yeah, I did comedy in college, and then I thought I should do something with this after graduating. And I did a podcast with a friend and he streamed it on Twitch. And that was slime as well. And I was like, oh, you know, I could just maybe stream while I try to find some comedy group in L.A. or whatever. And then I just did streaming and then that worked out. Cool. Well, congratulations. Thank you. Can you can you tell me a little bit about what growing up was like? Grew up in New Hampshire. It was chill. I had like a like a nice house, indoor pool. That's cool. That's like a weird thing that people don't have a lot. Dad died. High school is great. Three point zero, I would say. Yeah, pretty good high school. All in all. Did you say your dad died? Yeah, my dad died. My dad died when I was 10. Yeah. But also three point, oh, I was in choir honors wire. Wow, that's impressive. Can I just think for a second? Go for it, go for it. Varsity soccer. How old were you when you were into the 10th grade? No, he died when I was 10, not in the 10th grade, unless you're just wondering, sorry, how old were you when the the joke story is from the third grade? It was on hindsight, I misremembered. It's fifth grade, I believe, actually. How old were you in the fifth grade? Eight. No, wait. Ten. Wait, I was 10, Dr. K. See, you did it again. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I was 10 years old. A detective voice. Do you remember? What else happened that year? Wait, my dad died that year. Wait, OK, I'm I'm using a voice, but I do think I have an erect. Yeah, I guess that does add up. Sure. You're on to something here, I think. I mean, maybe. Mm hmm. So it's OK. Let's just sit for a second. How are you feeling right now, Ludwig? I feel good. I'm trying to remember dates. Because he died in March. I can't remember if it was before or after the story. But I don't I don't remember. I can't remember. Can you tell me a little bit about what growing up was like before your dad passed away? Chill, I don't remember a lot, which is regrettable. But, you know, I was I was like 10 and now I'm 25. Why do you regret it? Well, you know, I'd like to remember my father. But I can't remember that much from when I was 10 because I had smaller brain, less formed. But it was good. I remember we went on a lot of vacations to Europe where the family lives. So we'd see family a lot. School was pretty bomb. I played a bunch of video games. What you play. I was. The renowned worst gamer in my friend group, but I played a lot of Smash and Pokemon Snap and Kingdom Hearts. Wow, cool. Hmm. Never really got into any of those. But really, you know that. Yeah. Well, I've seen your show in no offense, Dr. K. You're a bit of a boomer. I mean, you're whipping out like I feel like the references you whip out in the games you're playing are dated. Yeah, they're a little bit older even. Absolutely, man. You'll always be like, you guys are play Star Quest 17. It would be like for like Windows 84. Yeah. So, you know, it's strange thing because I feel the boomer inside me. Yeah, I feel it coming, too. Like it's it's it's interesting because like when I see games now, nowadays, I think to myself like this thought pops into my head. Man, games are so much better. Like everyone talks about FF 10. Like you guys need to go back and play FF 4 and FF 6. Yeah. You know, let me tell you, I was just watching right before this one of the streamers. I really like play FF 10. I'm like, damn, this game's goaded. The kids won't know these days. They're all playing persona now. Yeah, I need to get persona shot. I want to get Pokemon a shot to with my kids, but it seems like Pokemon sword and shield suck. Yeah, I think Pokemon kind of fell off after the DS when they went three DS, it's kind of. But the old ones hold up like black, black and white. They're good. Cool. So what we just did, there is something called coming up for air. OK, OK, so sometimes when we talk about things that are serious, we sometimes crack a joke or we talk about games for a little bit, and then we kind of come up for air and then we're going to go back in again. OK, yeah, I go for a lot. I don't have a big lung. Yeah. We'll see. OK, we'll see. But yeah, I think so. I think so. I think that's sort of I think you have a bigger lung than you give yourself credit for. OK, yeah, that's fair. But I would say you do come up for air a lot. So let's just try to notice things about what we do. Right. And maybe we'll learn something. So you say that you kind of wish you had more memories, because they can you tell me a little bit about that? Yeah, you know, like like dad dead. Boom. I'm 15. Remember a good amount only like a few years ago, five years later, 20 in college can't really remember like maybe like his face or something. You know, it was like, you know, you forget the voice, the face, and then you got to go to like pictures and stuff like just like conjure it up and like the smell, just like things you'll forget over time because it happens over time. You forget. This sounds kind of weird, but it almost sounds to me like you're, you know, he didn't die at the age of 10. It sounds to me like you're actually like kind of losing him piece by piece. I think you do, right? I think that's kind of how it I think it's a constant war when someone dies to keep them as much as you can in their lives. And you can't because you will lose to time every time. Good job. No. I'm very impressed by you not coming up for air, because that's some heavy shit. That's a bar. You're the one you're the one dropping bars there, bro. OK. That's good. Do you notice that? Like, I look, I tried. I mean, I think coming up for air is good for others as well. So if I'm live with, you know, 20K on the reg, you know how it is. Just came up. I don't actually. I just come up for air. They come up for air, Dr. Kay. You know, I think other people also might appreciate that if they're not trying to have, you know, because I think the vibe of the stream is expected to be a certain way. So you come up a good amount, then everybody else gets to come up to. Yep. Yeah. I wonder if the pair of social relationships form when you don't come up for air. Dude. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like even coming on this show could promote social relationships if I'm being too real. Sure. And not as much of a character. Yeah. And then they're like, damn, what makes so real? I actually like him now. And then they give me their money. So they're like, I love you. And then they're my DMs, Dr. Kay. And then how does that make you feel? A little bad, can't respond. All you guys appreciate the money. Easy clap. I'm going to toss out a word. Do you feel inadequate? I used to. I think a good amount. I remember I used to stream like a year ago and my viewership was like booming. And I'd have like a really good stream, like a banger, like 10 K people would be there. And then I wouldn't want to stream the next day because I'd be like, I'll never hit this again. Like this is I've peaked this. I've done more than I can handle. And I would just I would I would not be able to hit the go live button. And I would just lie down on my floor for a while. But I kind of got over that. I don't know why. I can't exactly pin it, but I think I got over that. Yeah, so I think there's a lot to cover. Do you want to, you know, stick with the dad or you want to talk about the parasocial? I am so open. I feel like you're my sherpa in a way, and I hope you can guide me. I'd I'd happy to. I'm happy to be your sherpa on this journey on a shit covered mountain. My dream. Yeah. So tell me what what do you remember? I know that things fade over time and that's sad. Yeah. But what do you remember about kind of growing up like. Like like more specific. Yeah. Is this about anything about? Yeah, sure. Anything. Any memories from when you were. Sure. Member a few from. It's funny. The thing about memories in that if you look up pictures or videos, you will form like fake memories based off your like nostalgic relooking at it. But I would say the actual memories that stick out are I used to do a lot of shower races with my dad, which was basically we would both start the shower at the same time. Who could finish first? Probably not the best way to teach a kid how to shower on hindsight. You know, should take your time behind the ears. The whole works. But but those were fun. Um, I remember. Sleeping over friends houses. A bunch playing video games. And yes, there's a quite there's a few memories school. Can you tell me a little bit about your mom? Yeah, my mom's dope. She was a software engineer and she was let go because like the company was it was it was Hewlett Packard and they were just like downsizing. And then instead of looking for another job in software engineering and making bank, she just like went to school, got a business major, then became a teacher in French and Spanish. So she could like hang out with us because then I think my dad died. And she was like, oh, you know, I can't be at work until five because my kids get out of school at three. Wow. And then she was solo mom. Doing the shits, killing it. And do you have siblings? I have a sister, yeah, older sister. And. Can you tell me a little bit about her? Sure, yeah, she was angsty teen, you know, on AIM. I take a peek. She gets mad. She got that journal that would be on like infomercials that would lock to voice activation. A bit of a klepto, a bit of a trouble child. Great heart. Got in a bunch of fights with my mom. And yeah, yeah, that was that was my sister. Are you guys close now? We're pretty close. Yeah, we both live in L.A. We see each other occasionally. We text a good amount, I think. OK, cool. That's a good relationship now. Tell me, you know, can you tell me about your dad or is that hard? Yeah, no, I can tell you he was he was a cool dad, like, you know, like not allowed to watch TV after school because my mom would get mad. But the dad would be like, because he worked from home, he was like, you know, run it. And then she comes home and we have to, like, you know, go through the Tom and Jerry sequence to clean up the house and stuff. And then, you know, he would he would never narc. So he's a cool dad, wore Sperry's because he was a big sailor from Sweden. Lived there most his life. Well, yeah, it was worse. Sperry's. Yeah, the boating shoe. Oh, I don't know what that is. You might recognize them because like, oh, I guess maybe not. It's a newer, but it's like now it's commonly worn by like frat boys and stuff. It's Sperry's and that one brand with polos. OK, but he was a sailor from Sweden. And so that's why he wore it. I wore Sperry's for a while after. What kind of after what? He died. What and what does that mean? You wore Sperry's for a while after he died. Like he died and I was like, hey, this is our thing. Like, this is the this is the Ogren thing. We wear Sperry's in this house. I'm going to be a Sperry guy and I rock the Sperry's and the frat boys took it over and I backed out. Frat boys took that away from you. They took it away. They did. I never connect. They took it away from me. Yeah. You didn't want to be like them. No, God, no. Do wear Sperry's now. No, no, I wear flip flops. Comfortable. I'm not I'm not hearing any emotion around wearing Sperry's now. It's just sort of like a. Yeah, I think I have made very. Deliberate decisions to move on from certain things that felt like I was attached to for no reason, like like I had like his whole wardrobe and I threw out a bunch of stuff and and moved on from the Sperry's and like I had a belt that was his that I wore a bunch and I've whittled it down to to I wear his ring and I have his watch, but I'm not wearing the watch right now. So it sounds like, you know, you're not only losing him in your mind, you're sort of like losing you're like sort of letting go of the possessions one by one. Yes. Yeah, because I I thought it was unhealthy. What did you think was unhealthy about it? Like putting so much of an importance on inanimate objects and feeling the need to like use them or wear them when like if I were to look at it objectively, like boating shoes are not that convenient for a man who's not on a boat. And his shirts are not that stylish anymore. So, you know, I can keep it in the closet and that's fine and that's great. But I don't think it like it's not like it helps me recall anything. And I don't think it is functional in my day to day. Sure. Where I feel the need to keep it. Yeah. I think sometimes, you know, you can also kind of think of it as like growing out of it. Like, I think there are times where, you know, you may have needed those things for a particular reason and maybe you just don't anymore. Sounds like a natural part of the grief process to me. Yeah, I would I would agree. And how did he pass away? If you don't mind me asking. Alcoholic and I forget. My mom told me like a couple of years ago, but the nitty gritty is. Probably not that fun to talk about, because it's like something that basically it comes down to. He was an alcoholic, fucked up his insides, was refusing to go to the hospital, coughed up blood for a bit and then and then just died. Internal bleeding, stuff like that, I think. Wow, that's kind of grim. Yeah, yeah. You know, I can we can come up for air. I'm OK. Are you OK? I'm good. I'm good. I mean, did you understand what was happening? Yeah, yeah, I was. I was. I was. I was. I was. Yeah, I was 10. I do remember this quite vividly. I was sleeping in my mom's room because he was like not having the best day. He was sleeping in the guest room. And at some point during the evening, my sister went to the neighbors because she was like a bit like stressed out, like she gets really stressed. And then he went into the bathroom and then my mom got up. And I think he started throwing up blood. She called the cops. They came. I went to the neighbors and they came back the next day. And it was it was bad news. Do you remember anything about what you thought was happening or how you felt at the time? I was pretty scared when I was in my mom's room. And then I went to the neighbors and I just kind of slept and chilled and just tried to like wait. And then, yeah, and then they came back and I and I got and I kind of got it. Frame one cried. I think things that died for me before. So I kind of knew what death was. I'm sorry. I was what I didn't like. Like animals have died, I think. Oh, is my was my thing cut out. Are we good? No, no, no, no. I just said I thought you said things have died for you before. Yeah, like I think I understood the concept of death. I think we had a family cat die. And so I think I had understood my mom and explained it to me because one time I asked her, I said, how many lives do we get? After playing like Mario 64 and she's like, oh, like one. And I was like, damn, that sucks. And she was like, yeah. So I kind of knew going in that you get the game over Bowser screen on your first go. So when she was like, he's dead, I was like, oh, that sucks. You know, should have got 100 coins, kind of stupid of them. But just a quick come up, just quick. Yeah, I know. It's OK. If I don't come up with you, it's because I'm trying to stay down. And if I come up with you, we'll be up for a little while. I just can't farm too many sadges. I have a quota. Yep. That's why we come up for air. The ultimate way to come up for air is a dick joke. That's yeah. To tie a dick joke into my dad's death would be phenomenal. Yeah, I'll come up with one rigor mortis. Who knows? That's right. Look at how easy it is. Look at how look at how buoyant your mind is. Classic good ones. Yeah, that's what you got to come up with. It's important to you to be funny, isn't it? Yeah, it's my job now. Yeah. Coming up is what you do for a living. Yeah, I would agree. You're very good at it. You're very funny. I think weaving serious topics, well, I guess we'll phrase it coming up is, I think good because it allows you to talk about more serious things with people who might not want to because it usually sucks. Yeah, it's it's very, very healthy, actually. So I think it's interesting because one of the things we realized in the healthy gamer community is we're like starting to actually like get into comedians, or it seems like a lot of comedians seem to really need a lot of mental health support. I think they're another population that like gets very, very poorly served by the mental health system. So it's a bizarre thing that we're sort of noticing. And I think that there is a lot of like there's a lot of truth in comedy. Right. Comedy helps us sit with very, very scary things. Yeah. More easily. I know that, you know, sometimes some of the in a sense, most insensitive jokes, but also some of the most important jokes that we make are after codes in the hospital. A code is when, you know, like on these like medical shows, when they're doing chest compressions and they say clear and paddles and stuff like that, I think you'll hear the most jokes like after that. Really? Yeah. OK. It's just hard to sit with, like trying to keep someone alive for 40 minutes and then, you know. Yeah. So they die. Yeah. So you got to break it. Yep. But, you know, did you understand that your dad was an alcoholic when you were growing up? Yeah, for sure. I think. Yeah. How did you know that? He got arrested for a DUI. We lived very close to the liquor store, maybe a mile away, and I think he just he went. He bought a six to 12 pack, whatever, cracked one. And then they pulled him over in our driveway, actually arrested him, took him to jail. I don't think he was even drunk. And then he got his license suspended. So it was obvious because he would walk to the liquor store every day. And like, you know, like I was like eight, nine, but I know where he's going, you know, because I also called the candy store because they had candy there. But he was never going for candy. Dr. K, it was always for the alcohol and kids had brought it up as well. And kids had brought it up. What does that mean? This motherfucker's act on the bus, one grade older would sit in the back because that's where the cool kids sit. And he was just like, I forget exactly how it started, but he's like he was just roasting me because my dad didn't have a license and would go buy alcohol and walk there and shit like that. Yeah, that sounds do you remember how you felt or how you responded? I think I got mad, called him a pimple butt. You should have seen him. He was torn up from that one. Nice. Yeah. Well, well played. And do you know if your mom had did your mom and dad ever talk about their drink, his drinking? Yeah, I mean, they definitely had some some fights about it. She definitely wanted him to not drink because she was like, you're going to die if you keep drinking. And he had periods where he would stop because of that. But then, you know, he's addicted, so he would eventually relapse. And he didn't really like professional help because I think he thought it was like maybe admitting a problem too much or whatever. So and he just thought he had control over it. And I don't think he really did. Now, Ludwig, I would I would say that, you know, sometimes kids in your situation end up being very, very like angry. With their dad. But what I'm hearing from you is that it's super matter of fact. Yeah, I don't think addiction is his fault. I think that was like passed to him. Yeah. Do you blame him? No, not really. I think he could have gone to the hospital and he would have probably had a few more years, but no, I think he he did good as a dad. I feel he did a good job for 10 years. Could have done it longer, admittedly, but the 10 were good. So, you know. Who are you to complain? I can't complain. I got a good 10 in. Kids who have a worse upbringing or more deserving than you, huh, to complain? Yes, they are, in fact. Yeah. People who have it like so, you know, other people with anxiety, they're they're deserved to come on. But, you know, a kid who loses his dad from alcohol and watches his dad vomit blood and then dies, you don't deserve to come on. And you know, I think that's the problem. You don't deserve to come on and get support. I would agree. Agree with what? That at the end of the day, if anything bad happens in life, someone else had it worse. And I think that you can just look at the positives. I'm going to have to sit with that for a second. And also, I'm going to grab a tissue. Is that OK? Just let me let me think about my comeback. If he says pimple butt, we're over professionally and romantically. Full disclosure, I came up for her when you were gone. Oh, you did? Yeah, just full disclosure. What I miss. It was it's less funny if I tell you, if you go back and watch it, you might have a laugh. OK. Do you remember thinking when you were young that there are people who are like, like, you're actually pretty lucky? I was. Yeah, I mean, that you were lucky to have him around as long as you did and stuff like that. Yeah, for sure. So, I mean, I'm all. Yeah, I was going to say, I think in general, I had a good upbringing, like, you know, in middle class that died, but he had life insurance. So college pay was a good thing. I mean, I was a good guy. But he had life insurance. So college paid mostly outside of like a bit of student loan. But, you know, I think that's that's pretty, pretty good. That's a good life. Mm hmm. Mom bought me a car. That's nice. That's easy. Move to L.A. You have a lot to be grateful for. Yes. Yes. Let me ask you something. If you have a lot to be grateful for, does it mean that you have a is it possible to be grateful for things and ungrateful for things at the same time or is it either or? It is. But I think the energy spent reflecting on what you're grateful for is more valuable than what you aren't or upset about, because that you cannot change. And when you're grateful for is something that you can keep and continue to grow and like, you know. I think it's more valuable. I think it's more valuable. I can get behind that. Mm hmm. At the same time, I disagree. Look, you know, I can be 15, mall that, you know, my Jonah had a dad until he was 17 and my dad died at 10 or I can be like, damn, I got this sweet car because my mom is nice. That's Pog. And I think that it's a better headspace to be in the second world. I agree with that. So there's there's there's one thing. There's one thing that I would switch in your words. OK, sure. You can be mauled at whoever that is at 15 because they have a dad or you can be grateful for the the car. And this is where I would say replace the or with an and. But why be mauled? Because you're only mauled at life, which you have no control over. Getting mad at something I have no control over seems like a fruitless endeavor. Let me think about that for a second, because I think you're right. What do you have control over? Current life, relationships. And. How do you have control over your relationship? What do you have control over in your relationship? How I act in them. Mm hmm. And. I would say that's the biggest one. Yeah, how I act in relationships, how I show appreciation, everything. Everything, really, if it even starts, you have control over your viewership. I in a way, I would say, yeah. How so? I can choose what I do. Which will influence it. I think everything I do will impact that whole. OK, OK. Hold on, though. So what I'm hearing is that in your relationship, you have control over your relationship. You have control over your relationship. You have control over your relationship. You have control over your relationship. I think that in your relationship, you have control over your actions in the relationship. You don't have control over cuties responses, right? That is true. Yeah. In streaming, you don't really have control over your viewership. You have control over what you do. I think. The comparison of like, because I get it, like I don't have control over other people's responses. I would say two things. One, you can kind of predict based off of like previous encounters what might be a positive response. And I think that is even more viable in streaming where data is everywhere. And I can very quickly understand, you know, hey, this will do great. So let's be a little bit precise. I have control over flushing the toilet, but I don't have control over whether the poop goes down. Yeah, but it's gone down like almost every time. Sure, but let's let's be precise. Okay, sure. Yeah, what I have control over is whether the toilet gets flush. That is true, right? I've never I always thought I made the poop go down, but you're right. I only just flick the nozzle. Yep. Yep. And so I ask you to kind of revisit this idea of like, okay, so, you know, what do you have control over? Like you can't change it. Like you can't change anything anyway. I think if I thought that way, I would not be a big streamer though. Because if I thought I had that little control, I would never have tried streaming because I would thought I can't get people to come on stream. Yeah, so this is the really challenging thing Ludwig is I think you're doing great. I don't think you're someone who has all these problems or things like that. I don't mean to make a mountain out of a molehill. At the same time, I think that there are still like areas that all human beings can grow. And I think the real challenge here is that what we have to what I think would help you move forward in life, which by the way, I think it's just, you know, I don't know if you if I had asked you to start with death. Do you think we like it's just weird like the themes are just like in your face from today, right? So first of all, you toss out this comment about how you're not deserving to be here. It's also kind of like I think you could ask a thousand people on the street. You know, you're you're grateful for everything that you had in life, which is awesome. But like I think if you pulled a thousand people and they're like, you know, this kid had his dad die from alcoholism at the age of 10 and he saw him vomiting up blood like and he's grateful like is that feels a little bit weird to me. Yeah, I mean, if you boil it down, sure. Yeah, right. So you didn't even add in the POG car. Sure. And a car makes it OK. Wow. Like it was a POG car. I mean, must have been right to outweigh losing your dad at the age of 10. I mean, Jeddah, they do it right in Germany. I'll tell you. Yeah. So so and like I don't and I think what you're doing is healthy. Right. So I think you're right that like most people learn that dwelling on the past and like getting hung up on things that I can't change is not like productive or healthy and doesn't make me happy. I'm with you. We've we can talk to or have talked to on stream. I've certainly talked to with people, not even patients, just people who get caught up in the past and it's not healthy. So I'm with you there. But I think that like the challenge is that when we think about, you know, growth, there's the low hanging fruit and then there's the high hanging fruit. And I think where we are is all the low hanging fruit has been taken care of. Like you've survived, you've thrived, you've grown. It sounds like you're in a healthy relationship. Sounds like you appreciate your mom. Sounds like, you know, I haven't asked you if you drink and stuff, but, you know, I don't think we need to. But, you know, I'm guessing that you don't and that it isn't a problem for you, even though genetically you may be predisposed. I do it once a week. You do a what? A classy once a week. What's a classy? Like a classy once a week drink. What does that mean? Like, you know, just like a like a classy one. It's not like early and often. I'll just do like once a week. Just have my classy drinks and then move on with the rest of my week. Okay. And yeah, so like I was saying. It's all good, man. But I got to get back on the rails. Hold on a second. Yeah, so like low hanging fruit and high hanging fruit, right? So I think this is the challenge. So if you look at like the yogis would say that the first problems you solve in your mind are the easy ones. And the more the higher up you go, the more you level up. Like it's almost like an RPG where you need more XP to level up and the issues become more and more subtle. And I think you've adapted really well. You've bounced back really well. You have a lot of like really like you're an incredibly resilient person, right? You've learned how to look at the positive instead of negative. That's helped you like not wash away with like the negativity that you deal with. It probably has a lot to do with like how successful you are on Twitch because your mind is it's really healthy. It's like your mind has learned how to shift away from the negative and look to the positive. The challenge is that looking at the positive instead of the negative doesn't actually make the negative go away. Yeah. And this is where you know, if you really I think there's this like there's a and I think we'll get to this because you already said we're going to talk about that today. So, so, you know, I mean, I wonder if that has anything to do with. Oh God, you know, whether there's whether it's one life and then game over or you can collect coins and and you know, I wonder if there's some part of you that's like curious about like where is your dad now? Yeah. Yeah, probably. I think he thought he was very agnostic. He was like, you know, it'll be nothingness. Type of guy. I don't know. Sucks for him if that's the case. Why is that bad? Doesn't seem very fun. What do you want to talk about that? Let's do it. I wanted to come in. What did you want to talk about? Help me understand what you want to understand about death. Okay, so I had this moment in Disneyland. I think before my dad died. I was like nine where I had a dream and then the dream was life after death and but my dream was nothing. And then I woke up with a panic attack. And then I think I've been a little monk of W on death ever since. What is monk of W on death mean? Scared. What are you afraid of when it comes to that? If I'm right. Then life is so much better. Than death? Yeah, and death is so much longer. Than life. Okay. So, Ludwig, we can do this two ways. Okay, I can just tell you. Oh, yeah. Or we can like, you know, ask you questions and sort of like or we can just explain how death works. Hey, I prima strategy guided every game as a kid. I am unaffent if you just tell me the answers. Okay, so let's talk about death. So let me think about how to do this. Where do you start? Man. Little bit unprepared. Sure. Should I ask questions? Sure, you can. But I may just get there if I'm just trying to figure out the sequence of things, but go ahead and ask a question. Oh, okay. Dr. K, what happens after you die? It's a good question. Let me think about it. So I think to understand what happens after you die, you have to start by understanding like what is. Like how does the how does like the universe work? Okay, so I'm going to start actually with a story. So I was I was working at at this place called Massachusetts General Hospital. And if you grew up in New Hampshire, sometimes, you know, we would get people from New Hampshire. And you know, I'm a psychiatrist. So I was doing my psychiatry consult rotation, which means that you work in the general part of the hospital. You don't work on the psych ward. And so different teams will call you. So like we wouldn't manage alcohol. So like sometimes, you know, someone would come in for like a knee replacement and then they would start going into alcohol withdrawal. So we would like help people manage alcohol withdrawal. And I got a call from the the folks in the neuro ICU. Okay, so this is the neurological part of the hospital intensive care unit. And so there was a patient who had gotten into a motor vehicle accident was in a coma for two months and then was out. And then so anytime you consult a service, you have to have like a question. So you can't just like call a cardiologist and be like, we need help. You have to call a cardiologist and you have to say, hey, we did an EKG, which is something that checks your heart rhythm and the EKG looks weird. We don't know what to do with it. Can you come help us out? So the consult question for us as psychiatrists is the patient cries when no one is looking. And so they're like, we're not really sure like what's going on. Like he cries when no one's looking. And so I'm like, all right, cool. So we get a lot of weird questions because a lot of people don't have the vocabulary to like understand what you know, how to frame things for a psychiatrist. So I was like, okay, cool. So I go and I talk to the guy and you know, I asked the team. I'm like, you know what, you know, what's going on? Like what's his prognosis? And they're like, oh, he's going to like he's going to need to do probably three months of physical therapy. He'll make a full recovery. His family is thrilled. They come in every day. He's got two young boys, you know, like they're all super happy. Like they were super worried for a while. He seems to be happy that he's with them. Okay, like what's going on with his job? And they're like, I don't know because we don't ask those kinds of questions. I'm like, okay, so like maybe he's upset about, you know, something. So I go and I ask him and I screen him for depression and the screen is negative. I ask him, are you sad? And he's like, no, like what's your understanding of like what's happening? Like, are you going to be disabled? And he's like, no, I'm not going to be disabled. How are things with your wife? Things are great. She's super happy. They were worried for a while. I'm glad I'm going to be okay. She's going to glad she's good being okay. You know, everything's going to be okay. So like no divorce or anything like that. You know, you guys like have marital trouble. He's like, no, he's like, okay, so maybe it's the job, right? Like maybe he's dude's been in a coma for two months. So he's like broke financially and like that's why he's depressed. It's like, no, my boss is super understanding. I have really good health insurance. Like, you know, I'll go back to work. Like, you know, my co-workers have come to visit me. Like, it's actually fine. I'm just like really confused and I'm like, you know, what's going on with this guy? And so, he screens negative for depression. I'm just not sure. Like, I don't understand, right? And so, then like I check on him every day because that's what we've been assigned to him. And I go to the team and they're like, what's wrong with him? Have you fixed him yet? And I'm like, no, I don't know what's wrong with him. And then, you know, I come back the next day and I'm like, how's the, you know, how's the patient doing? He's like, yeah, he still like cries when no one's looking. I was like, what the fuck am I supposed to do about that? And they're like, I don't know what, you're the fucking psychiatrist. You figure it out. Have him stop crying. He's like really like bothering, like the nurses are super worried. And so, I check on him day after day after day. I ask him, you know, you think about killing yourself? Are you suicidal? Are you depressed? Are you anxious? Are you hearing voices? You know, it's like no, no, no, everything's fine. I'm happy. I have a lot to be grateful for. A lot of gratitude. I've got a nice job. I've got healthy family kids. You know, I could have been disabled. I could have been brain damaged. I could have been dead. None of those things are true. So finally, like on day four, day five, I'm working this weekend and it's a fucking Saturday. And I'm fucking pissed because it's a Saturday. I'm at the hospital. Come see this guy every single day. And then I'm like, dude, so I just ask him, I'm like, so you don't seem depressed. You say everything is fine. Why do the nurses keep on writing my ass about you crying when no one's looking? Just that I was like, why do you cry when no one's looking? Fucking tell me. And so he can see that I'm frustrated. And this is, you know, it's actually a little bit of a calculated play. But, you know, I've come and I've built a rapport with him and I asked him, just tell me like, what's going on? Why do you cry? And it says, Doc, if I tell you, you're going to think I'm crazy. And then I say, OK, I mean, that's I mean, I may think you're crazy, but I would love to hear. And he says, like when I was in a coma, like I lived another life and like I have memories just like from this life. And I was married and I had two little girls and like I was happy in that life. I was, you know, he was like some kind of engineer or something. And he like he remembers like he remembers all of these things. And he's like, the reason I cry is because I realized like I'm never going to see my girls again. And I mean, what do you mean? You're never going to see your girls. I thought you had two sons. And he's like, yeah, I've poisoned this life. But I like I had girls and like I loved them. I was there when they were born. I was there when, you know, my daughter got her first period because my wife was like traveling for work and like I had to go pick up tampons. And like I have all of these like memories. And what I realized is like the dude is like he's like grieving a life that existed within his coma. And it's really wild because if you actually talk to people who are in comas, this is a relatively common experience that what they experience in the coma feels real. What do you think about that? Sounds like some inception shit. It is some inception shit. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. It sounds. It sounds. Interesting. And I feel like. There's some explanation. In your brain, right? Neurons firing. Yeah, yeah, some nerdy scientists who can use words to explain that. Yeah. Yeah, so that's where you know, it's interesting because science. So, you know, when we look at scientific evidence, there's no evidence of any kind of thing in the afterlife or anything like that, right? So you've got like religions who believe in heaven and hell and whatnot. But the really interesting thing like the method that I kind of prescribe to is is a couple of things. First is that you have to understand the nature of like experience, mind, consciousness and existence. And what I mean by that is like, how do you know Ludwig that you are alive? Because I am. Okay. So how do you know that you are? Because I interact with the human world and I feel like a way that. Is tangible and vivid enough that it can't be fabricated. Okay, hold on a second. So let's let's get into tangible and vivid. What about the world is tangible? And what about the world is vivid? What do you mean by those words? Well, like everything, you know, like I can like I can like I can pick up a crush on a person. Like I can I can like I can pick up a crush cup and crush it. You know, like I know that the cup is real. Because it feels real. Okay, it looks real. Yep. Okay. So so if we think about it, yep. So so if we really think about it, what you're saying is that you're using your sense organs to collect data from the outside world. Yeah, but ultimately. It is your feeling of those things that determines existence. Yes. Right. So this is kind of interesting because like let's say I'm going to you know, ask you. I hope this is a safe question. Do you love cutie? Yeah. How do you know? Feel good. So it's feelings, right? So like this is this is really important to understand. So there is a barrier between the outside world and the inner world and all of our understanding of what happens in the outside world is actually through the inner world. It is your experience of things that that determines that is the foundation of what you understand to be real. Okay. Right. And this is where like this is, you know, Descartes sort of said cogito ergo sum. I think therefore I am. Yeah. And what Descartes sort of noticed is that like even if I'm hallucinating there has to be something that is experiencing just yawn bro. It's cool. Just there has to be there has to be something that is still being tricked. Right. Even in a hallucination, even if the outside world is real, there has to be something that is observing the hallucination. So something has to exist. Yeah. And the yogis determined the same thing. And what they realized is that actually like if you look at dreams and reality, there's actually no difference between a dream and reality. Because in the dream, it feels just as real as reality does. Okay. Right. So so then it yeah. What about like the laws? Like I feel like. Science makes everything makes sense. Like it's real. If that makes sense, like there are laws and rules and a system and it's and everything falls in line quite well. And we can predict the Mars will be here because it does that. And I feel like in dream, you know, I I'm running away from big crab man and like it feels real in the moment. But. So it's a good dream has an internal consistency. Okay. Why do we wait the internal consistency of waking more than the internal consistency of dreaming? Because if you really think about it in the dream, you're not like there's no such thing as internal. There's like a giant walking crab man. You do sometimes though, right? Like occasionally the dream will be so preposterous that you'll like you'll be like and wake up. Okay, now we're getting somewhere. Wait, was it trap? Okay. If by trap mean you've made a very important discovery, then yes. Okay. Right. So so this is where there's a set of meta. So what happens in that moment in the dream? Usually I wake up. Yeah. So tell me about your experience. Just as much as you can. Sure. Yeah. I remember I had dreams a lot as a kid that a samurai would come to my house and I would wake up in my house and I saw the samurai through the window. Bad samurai. The samurai was coming to kill my mother and I couldn't lock the doors. The samurai would always break through and then and then would get go into my mom's room. And and I was like fuck this guy is owning me because it happened so many times. And then a couple times the samurai came through and then I would I would I would be like, you know, I would try to notice something specific about the samurai that looks goofy because and I would be like that's samurai. I was wearing no shoes or something. Then I'd be like, that's weird. And then I would and then I would wake up. Okay, so you would find some internal consistent inconsistency in the dream. Yeah, you would wake up. Yeah. Right. Let me think about how to. So this is I'll just sort of try to toss something. I'm going to toss out a hypothesis. Okay. So the first thing to understand is that like the experience of things in the dream is just as real as the experience of things in reality. Yes. The fear that you feel in a dream is just as real. You know, if you wet your pants in a dream, it feels the same. So the interesting thing though is your I thought I peed myself today. I can't remember my dream, but I woke up and I was like, I fucking peed myself and there was no pee on me. So I was good. Yeah. Yeah. So so and then similarly, like if we think about it, like if you, you know, went to bed with heartburn in reality in the dream, the heartburn disappears. Right. So like there are conditions from reality that disappear in dreams and there are conditions and dreams that disappear from reality. Yeah. And we tend to wait reality, but really we're not waiting reality. We're just waiting wherever our mind is at the moment as real. Yeah. Okay. So then the question becomes how do you do this thing of snapping out of it? And what what the yogi sort of realizes is that there is there is actually something that is outside of your mind. So this is where like the next step is that they realize that the observer and the observer are the in the object of observation can never be the same. So when you look at your face in a mirror, what are you looking at? Are you looking at yourself? Yes. No. A uplift? Nope. You're not looking at yourself. What are you actually looking at? What is a mirror? Absolutely. You're looking at an image. Right. Right. So you're looking at something outside of you. So the eyes cannot observe themselves. You can never see your eyes. What do you think about that? I get it conceptually, but I still feel like I know my eye. Like if I pulled out my eye, I would know that's my eye. Have you ever seen your eye before? Only through reflections. Good, right? So I don't doubt that you know what your eye is. And now we're getting into sort of the nature of knowledge. You know what your eye is because you have an experience of your eye, but you have never seen your eye. You've seen pictures of your eye. You've seen reflections of your eye. You've seen images of your eye completely agree, but you've never seen your eye. Yeah. So the yogi sort of realized like this is kind of weird because the eye is a reflection of your eye. This is kind of weird because if I can observe my thoughts, then there must be something outside of me that is not my mind. And what I would say is that in the dream, so we're going to call that thing consciousness. Okay. And I would say in the dream, you become conscious that the mind in this reality is not real. And it is that rising of consciousness above the mind which experiences thoughts and fears and predictions and analysis and tries to control the reactions of others. That all happens within the mind. And then the consciousness realizes they're like, oh shit, this is this is weird. Yeah. And then you snap out of it. Okay. So is this also like because I used to lucid dream as a kid is the ability to live in your mind understanding. It's something your mind created similar then to sure. We'll get there in a second. Okay. So I'm not surprised that you lucid dream. So there's a very interesting karma to this entire conversation about that. Karma karma. Okay. Okay. So because I think I'm going to teach you a meditation technique, which which I think is works better for people who are capable of lucid dreaming. Okay. This lucid dreaming is sort of the first step that allows you to separate consciousness from mind. Essentially what I'm going to try to teach you is how to lucid dream while you're awake. Okay. That'd be high. I've not done it in like 15 years. So so this is where like the yogis ultimately what they concluded. So if you succeed at pulling your consciousness out of your mind. That is what we call samadhi or temporary enlightenment. And what happens to people who become enlightened is they begin to realize that there literally is no difference between dream and reality. Now people may think that that means that what you do becomes irrelevant, but we'll get to that in a second. It's not actually true. Okay. It actually becomes even more relevant and but essentially like so the nature of reality is that like there's this thing called consciousness. So now I'll just explain a couple of other things. So the yogis ultimately came to the conclusion that so they did these practices where they essentially like lucid dreamed in reality and they did a lot of thorough studies. There are particular techniques which are funny because the techniques around dreaming and the techniques around death are very closely related. So they're actually like a stepwise. If you really want to understand death, you have to start with techniques around dreaming. And it's all part of like it's bizarre that you're a lucid dreamer. You're interested in learning about death and like we're going to teach you about that. So this is what they ultimately concluded that reality the basic unit of existence is consciousness. That when consciousness oscillates at a particular wavelength, I know this is going to sound super hokey. You know, it doesn't need to make sense because ultimately all of this is experiential. Once you experience this, then you'll understand it. It's like I'm trying to explain to you, you know, what what love is and like you're not going to understand it until you experience it. Yeah. So based on some of their explorations and I'll teach you one practice today, the conclusions that they came to is that consciousness is the basic unit of existence. When consciousness coalesces, it forms energy and when energy coalesces, it forms matter. So in a small amount of matter, there's an exponential amount of energy and when there's in a small amount of energy, there's an exponential amount of consciousness. And what is this thing consciousness? It's kind of hard to describe, but the best experience that you're going to get is it's your awareness that exists outside of mind. Okay. Yeah. So then we sort of start to get to death and it's like, so what is death? So death is sort of the annihilation of body and mind, but the yogis actually claim that the consciousness still persists. Like so matter and energy cannot be destroyed, right? Like nothing in this world can truly be destroyed. Yeah, that's true. It just changes. So then the question becomes like, okay, so your matter changes into fish food. Your body is made of stardust that we're fine with. Energy cannot be created and destroyed, but what about consciousness? Now this is where there's like a very important deviation between West and East because West says that consciousness is simply a manifestation of neurons firing. But I don't know how to explain this, but like it's fundamentally wrong because like an experience is not an experience is qualitatively different from matter and is it qualitatively different from energy? Does that make sense? Yeah, like you do. They might fire the same, but they can be different. No, it's like it exists on a different like so, you know, matter and energy are fundamentally different, right? Yes. Is experience is experiencing something. Yeah, matter. I would think not right and is experiencing something energy. I would think not maybe like energy of me burning my brain cells, but no, no, but that's all matter, right? So what I'm saying is that fundamentally these buckets are like different stuff. The stuff of experience. Sure. There's a neurological correlate like I don't doubt that right. So for example, when I drink this water, I have taste buds on my tongue that will detect certain chemicals. Those chemicals will route to my gustatory cortex and my gustatory cortex will sort of route to my gustatory Association cortex and will tell me this water is good. Yeah, but even though that neurological pathway happens, it doesn't capture the actual experience. Water. Yeah. Okay, so you can study the neuroscience of fear as much as you want to it's not going to teach you what feeling afraid is like. Yeah. Okay, so the yogi sort of concluded that like there are these three buckets experiences its own bucket and this is where things get really interesting because still in a dream you experience. So they actually concluded that dreams and reality are actually like no different that all of and so. When we talk about enlightenment, one of the things that people say is you sort of like wake up and that's when you become enlightened and that may sound like super mystical, but we actually do this shit all the time. Where like you kind of talk about getting caught up in stuff, right? So you say that you used to feel inadequate you would lie down on the floor and your mind would be telling you all sorts of things and then I think at some point you woke up and you stopped doing that and you're more at peace because you kind of just woke up and if someone were to ask you. Ludwig, how do I stop caring about my viewers and you'd be like, I don't know and they're like, how did you do it and you were like I laid down for a while the thoughts were in my head. I tortured myself and then I just kind of stopped one day. And then they go and they lay down and they're like, I'm being tortured Ludwig. How do I stop and you're like, I don't know. It just kind of happened. That is an example of you becoming more conscious. Okay, you're less trapped within your mind. It's just like you snap out of the dream and then you awake to reality. You snap out of that mental pattern. You're like, I really can't do anything about it. I'm just going to make the fucking content that I want to. I'm just going to control whatever I can, which is myself. It's like, does that make sense? You become more conscious. It's also like we call this like taking a step back. Mm hmm. Right where sometimes you get so tangled up in something and then you learn how to take a step back. And if we think about what you did in the dream, you took a step back from the dream and it shattered the dream. And so what the yogis say is that this is something that can be learned. It is a skill. The process of learning to take a step back makes you more conscious, results in more peace and tranquility, results in more control over your mind, and moves you one step towards something that they call divinity, which is like the ultimate realization that it's like taking the complete step back. Yeah, with me. You can only do that. You can just do that whenever is like this complete step back. Sort of. Yeah. Or arguably you've already done it. You just don't realize it. I have I have one hole that I want to talk about real quick. Yeah, people old people are my hole. Why are old people your hole? Because they get we get like dumber and when you're older, your brain starts to I feel like deteriorate a bit and it can be because of, you know, whatever malady you've gone through. But, you know, like the older you get, like when you're like ninety five, sometimes your brain starts to like, you know, get a little less sharp. But wouldn't the conscious only get stronger? Why would the consciousness get stronger? Because it's experienced more and it's not weighted to bodily problems. Let me think about that. So you're saying that since there is a brain that decays and older people appear to be less conscious, the more their brain decays, wouldn't that imply that consciousness is born of the brain? Yes. Yes, you are correct. Bro, the yogi should have brought me in. What now? So that's where I would. I don't know whether consciousness. The short answer is that's something I actually don't know. So the only way to really understand that. I think it's actually still holds up. But really the true way to understand that is to have a mental decay and see if you can preserve a sense of consciousness. Yeah, because I guess we only know that based off how we perceive them to act, but maybe their brain is chilling. Yep. So you may just you just may be aware and this happens sometimes right where like you're observing your mind going wild. Like you'll see this a lot in people that panic attacks where they recognize that their mind is going crazy and there's a part of them that's like, holy shit. My mind is wild. I can't control it at all. It happens sometimes if I take an edible. So you can still but then the question is someone on the outside, even though your awareness of your mind and your consciousness may be intact, someone on the outside would say you're impaired. I saw that they outwardly say it, but I'm like, that's what the perception would be. Yes. Right. So so like and I think so then the question becomes does your quality of so actually you can do this experiment. So this is where ultimately Ludwig like it's not going to be logic that pokes a hole in this. The only way you can ever poke a hole in this is to experience something come to me and then you're not going to poke a hole. You're going to tell me you are wrong because then you will have an experience. So this is what I would say. First of all, understand the the quality of consciousness and then see if the quality of consciousness alters through alterations in your neurochemistry. And this is where like one of my favorite experiences is meditating while drunk. Because my experience has actually been that the consciousness remains exactly the same. It is simply the mind and the body. Yeah, and actually the more that I think about it that actually what your suggestion is probably actually gives us better evidence for what I'm saying, which is that mind and body are actually fundamentally different from consciousness. I'm following. I have never thought about that, but it is true that I have reflected on how. I am acting which yeah, I am acting which is the same as the mind. I am acting which yeah. Yeah, that's philosophically deep for my brain, I think. So forget about philosophy. This is not about philosophy. This is about experience. Okay, so the question is like close your eyes right now. Okay, and notice. Yes. Okay. Shit. Okay. Notice your thoughts. And notice that there is a noticing capacity and then there are thoughts. Sure. Right. And so now like the next time you take an edible, I'm not saying that you should use drugs. But if you use drugs, yeah, try to see what the difference between those two things is and see what it is that has changed within you. Yes. And this is where what you'll really discover is like this gets like super deep into shit like the self right? What is it? That's you. You're Ludwig. You have facial hair right now. I do. I haven't shaved. And there was a Ludwig that existed before you had facial hair. Is that still Ludwig? Yes. So how do you know who Ludwig is? Because it's not your physical form. If you lost a hand, would you still be Ludwig? Think it's How I interact with the world based off of my previous experiences. Okay, so this is stuff that you should explore. But essentially what the yogis concluded is that you think about anything that you use to define Ludwig including your name and that's not really who you are. Yeah. Because you could say Ludwig is a Twitch streamer. And but you were Ludwig before you were a Twitch streamer. You're going to be Ludwig after you were Twitch streamer. You're going to say Ludwig is single like so if we look at incels like incels identify with the concept of being incel and then one day they got a girlfriend. Like what happens to that? Are they shattered? So this thing that we call identity, this is a hum car ego, the I feeling or identity is all false and the yogis realize that the only thing that truly exists is this consciousness that your mind changes your emotions change your body is change your status in life changes and therefore all of these things cannot be real. So matter can change but at the end of the day there's like a finite amount of matter in the universe. There's a finite amount of energy in the universe and there's a finite amount of this third thing called consciousness and the essence of who you are still exists no matter what kind of change you go through. And so now we get to death because what happens to that essence? When you die. Is death a physical thing? Yes. Is it a mental thing? Both right? Sure. Is it a thing of but what we're saying is that there's a consciousness there is a Ludwig essence that transcends your body and your mind because your body and your mind change all the time but there's a certain constant Ludwigsness and that is your consciousness. Yeah. So what the yogis would claim actually they didn't and this claim is based on practice. So what they claim is that that Ludwigsness is like always going to be there. Just like matter is always going to be there and energy is always going to be there. It can change form. But there is a certain amount of permanence of stuff in the universe, which is actually like scientifically supported right? So like we know that matter and energy can't be destroyed. And so now the real question is is this do we have scientific evidence of this third thing and the short answer is not really but maybe and this is where you get into hokey stuff around quantum mechanics, which one of my friends a lot of people like draw parallels between like yoga and like these Eastern Mystics and quantum mechanics. And I have a friend who's a quantum physicist who's like that shit's bullshit. Quantum mechanics is about math. It's not about like yoga hippies saying that like, you know, whatever we can get into that if you want to. So now going back to your original question of like what happens after death and why do you think this question is important to you? Because I'm going to die and everyone I know will so I'd you know, I'd like to know like if a friend moves to Europe, I'd like to know if they're okay and they're doing well. Is it about your dad? For sure. Yeah, right. So you want to know? I mean everybody right? Yes, everyone, but I think for you like let's admit it and I think your mind deviates away from this right because your mind focuses on the positive. Yeah, but you want to know if your dad is doing okay. Yeah. That's it. Right. Yeah. Sure. All this other shit is philosophical. That's the way that your mind cloaks something negative in something positive. Yeah, don't look at the badness and like you want to know like is my dad doing okay and it's okay to ask that right? This is where we now we get to the subtle layers of where you need to grow. It's okay to sit with that thought and like not know. You don't have to think about your friends and what's going to happen to you. It's okay to like not know and sit with that negativity. It doesn't mean that you're malding and this is where malding is within the mind. The more you become conscious and now we come full circle because what I'm saying is that as you gain in consciousness, you don't need to wait positive greater than negative. Everything is what it is. Right. So like you used to be trapped in this idea of like, oh my God, I'm not going to get enough viewers. I'm not going to get enough viewers. Nothing changed when you became more conscious. You were just like, I just can't control that shit. Whatever. I'll get viewers. I won't get viewers. I know analytics. I've done my homework. I've studied for the test. I can't control where I whether I get an A but I can be confident in the work that I have done. Yeah, I like that analogy. Right. And that's that's consciousness. So then suddenly if I had asked Ludwig before your realization and after your realization, Ludwig hold on. Let me think about this. I just lost it because it's trying to tie so many threads threads together. Fuck. I had something. Oh, yeah. So so prior to your realization, negativity meant more to you. Even though your situation doesn't change, your mind was like more like nothing changed after your realization, right? Like all of the bleak things that you were worried about are still exactly the same. Does that make sense? Yeah, that's true. And so the negativity was born of your mind. It wasn't actually born of reality. And when you become more conscious that negativity, the all of the all of those things that you were struggling with were just as true. Although they feel less negative. You with me? Yeah, I'm with you. And so as consciousness grows, the difference between positivity and negativity starts to shrink. And now we get to where you need to grow because your mind focuses on the positive instead of focusing on the negative, which is absolutely adaptive. The next step is to recognize that you don't need to do that anymore because there's no difference. Right shit happens. So be it. I don't have to look away from it. Yeah. Yeah, I feel that sometimes I do think about the negative. Sometimes then though, when I think about the negative, I feel like I'm thinking about it in a performative way. Like I need to think about this. Yep. Which is also weird experience. Like even like just by myself. So yeah, so that's why it there's a lot of reasons why it feels weird to think about the negative. I think. Yep. And so the key thing is going to be that you don't as you grow in consciousness, you don't need to focus on the positive anymore. Okay. And you can sit with both things. You can be grateful that you got a car. But for fuck's sake, man, your dad died when you were 10. Yeah. And you're allowed to be upset about that. Like what the fuck? Yeah. Right. You're allowed to like you're entitled to a little bit of like. Sag. Sure. And pity and compassion from other people. And it doesn't change. The two are completely unrelated. Like. Like how the fuck? Just look at that. It's absurd that your mind has an equation where the death of your dad in a car or like. Well, it's not like one to one. It's more so. I know it's not one to one. Just the fact that your mind even associates those two things is like fucking dumb. Okay, sure. Okay. Right. Yeah, that's not wrong. And so that's how you've grown and that's how you've adapted. And it's like awesome that you have gratitude for life. It's awesome that you're compassionate. It's awesome that you put other people first. It's awesome that you try to make people laugh. And are you a positive person? Yes, but being a positive person doesn't mean that you're not entitled to like some amount of grief. And some amount of like that sucks for me. Yeah. Right. And so like learning to sit with it is going to happen. So the more you try to learn how to sit with it, the more conscious you will become. The more conscious you become, the more you will be able to sit with it. Okay. So the advantage of sitting with negative thoughts and emotions is that will become more conscious. Ideally, yes. Because sitting with it is not reacting to it. Even the phrase sitting with it implies that the consciousness is there. So the opposite of sitting with it is getting wrapped up in it. And if we talk about getting wrapped up in it, then we're kind of stuck. We're walking around in the fogginess of our mind where our mind is telling us all kinds of things. And we think that, and this is wild, just think about this for a second. You think your thoughts are true. Yeah. Which is the dumbest fucking thing in the world. Because like, what is a thought? Shedding. Yeah, that's a good point. That's a good point. But when we get caught up in our mind, it's like, I can think about, you know, I'm going to make a paladin who's a good person. Half orc, half unicorn. That's a fucking thought. It has no bearing on reality. Yeah. Like that's going to be my next D&D character. You've thought it up already? It doesn't make it real. Like, it's just thought. Yes. I, yeah, I've always thought I guess it's not real until it's actualized. You know? Yeah, but then we get down to the whole rack of the road of dreams and shit, right? So then like ultimately, you know, Yeah. So is that, is a dream real? Because you certainly experience it. So if dreams didn't exist, for sure nothing happens after we die. If dreams didn't exist, we'd have no qualitative evidence that anything but nothing is certain after death, right? Like I feel like dreams are the one wrench in the science community's beliefs on death. No, because the science community's beliefs on death will just be that dreams are just figments of the, like they're very materialistic in their view. Yeah. They just say that like dreams are a creation of the brain. Whereas the way that I talk about it is like just because you see the sign of something reflected in something else does not mean that that is all there is. So what I mean by that is let's say I have a sheet hanging in the wind and all I see is the movement of the sheet. And therefore I conclude that the wind doesn't exist and all that exists is the sheet because it's all that I observe. It's the only thing that I can see. It's the only thing that I can touch. But the wind exists outside of the sheet and ripples into the physical world on the sheet. So in the same way, just because the brain is a physical ripple of experience doesn't mean that the brain is the only thing that exists. Yes. I don't know if that's what makes sense or not. I think that analogy caught on for me. Yeah. Right. So it's just the brain is simply like the physical reflection of certain things that happen. And we're falling into a really tricky trap because just because we can observe the brain and we can't actually it's not a tricky trap. It's just how science works. We just don't have any direct ways to observe consciousness yet. And so all we can see is the brain. So that's all we think exists. Do you think that's OK, though, that we don't? Sure. I think it's the way that science works. Right. So this is. They've been around. Huh? They've been around like no one's done it. You know what I mean? Like observed it in a. Yeah. So that gets into the problem of the observed and the observed that the observer and the observed can't be the same thing. Yeah. Right. So this is where this is where the hokey quantum mechanics stuffs kind of comes in because some people believe like there's this thought experiment called Schrodinger's cat. Are you familiar with that? Yeah, of course. So like the thing with Schrodinger's cat is that reality doesn't actually exist. Reality is just sort of this weird waveform of probabilities and that matter is like coalesces into reality through the act of observation, which is fucking wild because the yogis for thousands of years have been saying that the most fundamental thing that exists is the act of observation. Yeah. Right. And so this is where the counter argument to that, if you're a physics is you can say whatever you want to with real language. But unless there's math to back it up, you don't know what the fuck you're talking about. Fair. Yeah. Has a yogi or anyone ever gone into the wake up mode enlightenment and then just and then just never came back to their body? Because I feel like that would be a good observation of it being real. Does that make sense? He has not come back to their body. But then how would you know then if they gained enlightenment? Because then it was it was like they self actualized leaving the body. Like if I said, hey, I'm a dip now, I'm going to let my brain leave and then my body never comes back and I called my own shots. Yeah. So so this is the short answer is yes, lots of people. But I sort of have skepticism over that. So what a lot of people will say, this is where like people in religious traditions, Ramakrishna, you can look him up on Wikipedia. It's just the first person that guy comes to my mind who sort of did this and he's like, I'm a piece out now. I'm done. Call the shot. Yeah. And then he was around and then he just never came back. Yep. That's insane. I think it happens a lot. So this is also where I think what happens is religious traditions say that that's what their spiritual master does when they just die. Yeah. Yeah. OK. So I'm a skeptic by nature. So ultimately Ludwig, so that has people have called their shots. Absolutely. Ultimately, this is what I'm going to tell you. If you want to understand what happens with death, step number one is like just experience it. And I don't mean commit suicide. So I don't think you should commit suicide. But what I what I mean by that is like there are certain meditations that you can do to like recall your past lives. And so that shit is just it's hard to describe, but it's just wild. It's like the best thing that I can best what I can use. So basically you have memories of your past, right? Yeah. So so like there's some meditation techniques that you can do where you just like have memories of your past, except they're just not this life. Yeah. It's like you remember like this thing that you used to do with your dad where you guys used to do the shower race. It's like, you know, you just have a memory where like you and your dad used to like, you know, put horse horseshoes on a horse. And you're like, oh, shit, I was a girl back then. And I just it's just it's the same quality of memory. And then you're like, well, that's fucking weird. I have this whole pile of memories sitting in my hard drive that I just don't that now I remember even though and it just it's weird. It like really causes you to question because you've got this whole consistent memory bank, but it's just not from this life. And then like then how do you reconcile that? Do you call it fantasy? But it feels so consistent and it's so like longitudinal. And this is where like I've seen this in fucking weird ways. OK, so like I had this one patient who had like really bad PTSD. Except she had never had a trauma. She went to like a bunch of psychiatrists and this is weird. Like I'm the first one to say, like, I don't know what the fuck to make of this, except it's happened. She went to a lot of psychiatrists and wound up with me because she was interested in holistic psychiatry, like meditation. Oh, my God. So we like did that shit for a while and it wasn't really helping. And then like I kind of asked her, I was like, you know, so it seems like you've got all the features of PTSD, but like there's no trauma. Like we dug and dug and dug and dug and dug. Couldn't find any trauma in her life. And it's like, what the fuck? So then one day we were just like kind of talking and I was like, did you get traumatized in the past life? And she was like, yes. And I was like, tell me about that. And then she just started telling me all this shit that didn't happen to her. And I shit you not, she got sexually abused by a cult leader in a past life. And then like the second we figured that out, I know it sounds weird. It's just fucking weird. It didn't happen to her. It's not real. But from a clinical perspective, once we did therapy over that trauma, she got better. And as a scientist, I have no idea how to understand that. Yeah. So this is like the best I can come up with is maybe she saw like a movie when she was a kid and she thought it was her and that was traumatic. But that just sounds like a stretch. Right. Like, yeah. I mean, people, I would just mark it off as loony. Yeah, absolutely. Rocker. So she's off her rocker. I'm off her rocker. I sure as hell am not scientific, you know, because that doesn't bear in reality. But as a clinician, like, what do you do when you do therapy for memories that don't exist and a patient gets better? Like, how do you understand that? Like, the clinical result is absolutely real. I don't know. I really don't know. Yeah, and this this happens occasionally. You'll get people who like, you know, hypnotize and like it's like really bad science, like really kind of hokey shit. I don't trust most of it. I wouldn't trust myself. It's not a technique that I employ on a regular basis. It's like because I don't know what the fuck happened there. I mean, maybe she's delusional. Maybe I'm delusional. Maybe I implanted something or steered her in a certain way. I have no idea. Yeah. Anyway, that's earnest. Yeah. So questions, thoughts? Um, I think my current thoughts are to sit with negative emotions and then the rest of it kind of sounds like the avatar state, which I don't think I can do at this point, but seems cool. Yeah, I'm going to teach you to practices. I'm down. I'm done. Just so you know, let me just say this. I got a dip in about, I would say about like five minutes. That's totally fine. Practices are going to be short. Perfect. So first practice, I'm going to teach you step one and it's going to be sort of the same as step two. Okay. I want you to sit in the moment between inhalation and exhalation, but don't hold your breath. Okay. Okay. I'm manually breathing now though. Yep. So notice the inhalation. Notice the exhalation. Don't pause in between, but there is a space where between inhalation and exhalation must exist. It does exist. I can't tell if I've manually made it longer or slower or faster, you know? Yep. So just sit in that space. Helps with your eyes closed. We're going to do this for about 60 seconds. Okay. Okay. Come back to us. What was that like for you? Breathing out is way easier. Okay. Were you able to even find any inkling of the space between the two? Yeah, I think in a way, I don't know, it felt like a Mario Party mini game. Yep. Good. And I was thinking of the air. That's a great way to describe it. Yeah, that's how it felt. Okay. Wow. That's the best description of meditation I've ever heard. God. So here's the next thing. Okay. So this is going to be practice for the real technique. Okay. Catch the moment of sleep. So there is a moment where you are awake and then there is a moment that you are asleep. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Sit in the in-between space between wakefulness and sleeping. Okay. And come back out or just try to sit there? Sit there, baby. Don't be asleep and don't be awake. I catch the moment a lot actually because the way I sleep is with my head hanging off the bed and I have my phone and I usually have a stream open. And the moment I'll fall to sleep, I'll let go of the phone. And so I'll catch myself in that moment a lot right before I fall asleep because the phone will fall out of my hands. Stay there. Yeah. Stay there as long as you can. Okay. Okay. And this is where it's interesting because there's another conversation for another day about your karma and how you were meant for this. Okay. That you are halfway on this road, baby. You're already halfway there. I'm just going to give you a couple of techniques to help you go the rest of the way. If the techniques don't work, you're going to get there the rest of the way on your own. Okay. Okay. And then once you do those for a while, then we'll give you a technique specifically on death. But in that transition period, when your mind, it's anyway, I won't say anymore, but just do it for a while and then check back with me in a couple of months. If we ever meet at TwitchCon or something, I'll teach you something in person. Sounds good. Sounds lovely. Thanks a lot for coming on, bro. Absolutely. Chat, by the way, hey, charity for children. We're at 3.4K. Look, boys, it's very easy. If you got some liquid income, I know it'd be COVID, but I know you'd be rich if you'd be on Twitch sometimes. So take a quick, just a quick peek at the old bank account for the kids. Bring back the board policy. No child left behind today. Wow. You have some great energy about you, bro. I'll match all donations for the next hour, by the way. Are you going for another hour? We're done. You're done? You're going to end? Yeah. Like, feel for 30. OK, sure. And I'll match all donations for 30. OK, cool. We'll do that. OK. I don't know what I'm going to figure out what I'm going to do for 30, but thanks a lot for coming on. Absolutely. Thank you for having me. You don't have to do 30 if you don't want, but I appreciate it. It was a good time. It was a good time. Sorry. Sorry. I think it's short, but it went. No, no, no, no. Two hours is exactly what we normally do. So it's perfect. Take care. Bye. Goodbye. Thank you. OK. Chat.