 Yeah, so a couple of things just a brief announcements for before we hop in with train one is that our coaching program actually launched on friday. And just a reminder that coaching is not medical advice so it's not like treatment or therapy it's actually like supporting you and moving forward. So issues like playing too many video games working on your motivation your relationships laziness things like that feeling socially isolated negative thought patterns these are the kinds of things that are coaches work with. And specifically what i wanted to talk to you guys about cuz we haven't really shown this group coaching i think is really really effective i think it's interesting because on stream you know we do a lot of individual work. But i don't know if you guys could kind of get this from friday stream but the cool thing about a group is how can i say this so when i'm working with a person individually. It's hard to make them see their biases. Right what's actually really really effective and i think part of the reason that group coaching is so effective is that when you see your problems in another person it is way easier to analyze and figure them out. So like when you hear someone else talk about procrastination in a bizarre way you're free from all of your own issues so you see how they struggle with procrastination. And then you learn a lot more from it so group coaching is sort of this idea that like you know we get a group of y'all together and then you guys kind of go through this process together there's also. Sort of this idea that like you know when we're trying to figure out a problem each of y'all is gonna have one piece of the puzzle. So in a weird way it can actually be while it isn't quite as specific to you you can actually learn a lot from your colleagues and there's also an added advantage to group which is that you can actually help other people which i cannot. Underestimate the value of their thousands of people that need help and we think that group is kind of like effective because you know you can support your peers you can learn from each other we can help more people. So if you guys are kind of curious i would highly encourage you all check out group coaching. Give me just wow how you doing train time good how are you good man. I like the aesthetic of your place man very black and white and clean. Thank you cove is really pushed me back in the cleanness but like to me this is dirty really dirty but yeah. Oh wow. What have you been. Good man been. Good how are you. Good good you know just. You know. yeah you know just just woke up and. yeah you know yeah. What part of that are you in the US. yeah i'm in Texas. Oh you're in Texas. yeah we're in Texas. Austin downtown. Oh wow. Cool I spent many a year in Texas. Really yeah. I mean in Austin I mean I'm from Texas but I really undergrad at UT. Oh that's so cool yeah. I'm from Arizona so that's where I live my whole life yeah Scott still. And three years ago. Okay yeah cool so yeah there's something in particular you want to every i'm calling you Tyler or train. Whatever you like anything goes anything works. So anything in particular you wanted to talk about today. I think no I think we just do a continuation you know like a part one part two part three part four part five you know diving deep you know you know each session we go deeper down or whatever you call this you know deeper down into what. The abyss. It's like where are you going man. Okay. We're we're diving deep chat. Deeper down. Deeper deeper. Deeper deeper. All right i'm back. All right man. Wow. Wow what. You know since I just woke up. I still have burning sensation in my eyes that makes sense. Sort of you have dry. I'm not awake yet. No maybe i'm not sure but it's it's as if i'm still tired my body's awake my mind's awake my eyes are not. Does that make sense. Let me think about that. Burning. It's like well hmm. It's not burning it's like. Let me think about this so let's see I wake up. You know my eyes are indicating that I need to go I need to close them and sleep but my body and mind are awake. Okay. It's the night I took I took I took I took nightcloth last night. Ah. I think it's nightclothes that makes sense I'm a little drowsy still. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Nightclothes will lead to dry eyes. Wait really. Yeah. Oh wow. That explains a lot. If I remember correctly nightclothes has something called the anti cholinergic effects. Which dry you out so they cause constipation sometimes urinary retention dry eyes dry mouth dry nose. Right that that's sometimes why it helps so that when you took nightclothes may have something to do with it. Yeah. Damn. Yeah. Well how have you been. How you been. Good man. COVID. Good so I actually was thinking yeah I mean things are good I think. You know things are sort of like we I moved to Texas during COVID actually. So I really. Yeah. So at first I just came down here temporarily but then COVID never ended. So now I'm just here. Well you're in Texas right now. Yeah. Are you in Austin. Houston. Houston oh nice. Yeah. So I was. Yeah. Good. I was like born grew up in Texas so. Back home. Texas boy. Yeah man. Absolutely partner. Is Houston more like cowboy hat cowboy boot spurs. Well I mean Austin Austin is well you can have cowboy hats anywhere Texas let me tell you what but. Austin is really it's like it's like all the liberals are down there you know what I mean. It's like a tiny amount of the northeast or the west coast. Right in the heart of Texas. Yeah it's a little piece of California in Texas. Yeah. Yeah. Different things and yeah living freely and. Yeah. Yeah you know. All those all those things man. Yeah yeah I would even say maybe like you know I watched some vampire movies TV series you know like vampire diaries right or like the originals and these things take place in like New Orleans right. I would say. What's that one district called in New Orleans where there's like a lot of people who are like. New Orleans right I would say. What's that one district called in New Orleans where there's like Mardi Gras and stuff. The French quarter. The French quarter yeah I would say it's a little bit of French quarter in Austin right I feel like I can walk down the street get my fortune told while there was like a witch performing a ritual. Sure you can talk about yeah you can certainly get your fortune told in Austin for sure oh yeah yeah. I've heard it's changed a lot but back when I was you know there I mean I don't know if the keep Austin weird is still a thing. Oh yes very much so yeah that was you know that was before a bunch of people moved in but I'm glad it's still a thing. So train yeah. One question that I had kind of last time is is you know you'd mentioned your parents a couple of times and and I just I was looking at some of the notes that I had taken from our last talk and it seemed like we hadn't. You know we talked a lot about sort of the effects of their upbringing but we hadn't really talked much about them or what it was like to grow up. You'd kind of mentioned to me that you know you studied biochem and you're of Iranian descent yeah yeah and and so. There were kind of I sort of felt like you had mentioned a couple things and we could make assumptions about what those sorts of things meant. Like in terms of the value system that you were brought up with and things like that but I was actually kind of curious if if you could tell us more. yeah so. yeah. Sorry I have to okay so before we get to that. Sure. We got to do a. What can I I got to warm the juice so my brain is like right now here's where I'm at mentally okay. So you buy a new computer okay turns on instantly right everything's ready to go right. And then after about five years of doing various things in that computer you know. It could be anything right so it's slowing down you start turning it on you have three different startup processes you know and things are just taken forever right you end up blue screening going back to the restart. That's where I'm at right now okay so I got it I got to get I got to get the juices flowing before we get into that you know so. So. yeah. Let me think about this, where can we start that'll get my you know brain where it needs to be hmm. Great question one that I think you'll have the answer to. yeah have you played among us have you tried that game. No. it's a really good game what's it what kind of game is it. So there is like there's 10 players and you load into a map and the map has various tasks that you do and the objective of the game is. there's two imposters but they don't tell you who the imposters are they randomly selected the start of the map no one can talk and you go around the map. There's two imposters but they don't tell you who the imposters are they randomly selected the start of the map no one can talk and you go around the map. And you have to like study people's behavior study people's you know you know have a good sense of deception and you know build a perceived when you're lying or not I don't know if it's the right word there but anyways it's really, really fun really good. But yeah I suggest people that don't take it personally because you know if you end up lying to them or you're calling them out on the line. How do you lie if there's I think you said there's no communication. So there's communication in between each round so if I if I'm an imposter and I kill somebody and let's say an innocent person finds the body they can call it. And then we all tell our locations they ask questions and we all play it off as if we didn't kill it and then people have to figure out through the clues and consistencies. And and and like contradictions and stories of who the killer is does that make sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah sounds really fun it's a really good game yeah if no if no one cheats but you know I've you know me and XPC have caught some people. How do. So since the different since everyone has a chat and different chats and go into each person's stream they can see on the screen who the imposter is and who did right. So a lot of people I don't know why but they read their chat while they're innocent crew members so they're told that they're you know it's it's terrible but that's a very low percentage of people that do it but. You know. Tax. Yeah it's yeah. Yeah are you pretty good at being deceptive. You know. It was actually one of my worries of starting the game so. With where i'm at. So i'm a very paranoid person very paranoid okay so like i'm talking paranoid to the point where. You know other students can tell you you know I had slicker and john zirka here in Austin and I took them to dinner and before we had any conversation at all. I made them put their phones in the middle airplane mode then I had them stand up in the middle of the restaurant this is a nice restaurant took him to stand up I passed him off and. So I'm very paranoid as is like some CIA type stuff now. I was worried about starting the game because everyone's been asking me to play the game for so long i've been kind of just ignoring it not wanting to play just avoiding it. Because I knew that this game is going to lead me down one of two roads. It's either going to lead me down the road where i'm very bad at it and it fits every narrative that i'm terrible at games. Or i'm very good at it and it's going to be used as a as a credibility against the negative imperative of i'm a manipulating terrible evil person right. So since i'm like that character in each of these narratives I was scared that there was a lose lose for me to play the game but fortunately. i've been pretty good at it and no one's gone that down that road but that was definitely something me and my community were laughing about along with my other streamers that are friends. So yeah it was definitely a fun time though so yeah I mean I don't know if i'm good at being deceptive but it's it's it's I like puzzles I like puzzles so i'm gonna i'm gonna puzzle games I think I don't know I could be wrong. Okay. So it makes sense. Sure I mean it's so interesting so I asked you a question. Yeah. And interestingly enough I don't even know if I got an answer to the question. But boy did you give me some juicy morsels. Like what's up with the paranoia who is slicker. Slicker and john are. Two streamers on twitch and I met them on a good. Are you bad at games. And what's up with with feeding into the narrative that you're evil are you where does that you seem like a devil. Yeah but I think I think you can see through a lens of like wisdom and maturity and like more like you know just the more. I don't want to call it an objective lens because I don't think good or bad isn't necessarily this objective thing I mean it is but it's not I don't know what it is but it seems like you can see me. Not for me I mean I'm just I'm not going to be like you know I'm just I'm not going to be like you know. I don't want to call it an objective lens because I don't think good or bad is necessarily this objective thing. I mean it is, but it's not, I don't know what it is, but it seems like you can see me not for, I mean, I'm sure initially from first and the point is here's what I've so shit. Um, excuse my language by the way. Um, okay. So how do we do this? So it starts all the way back in middle school, high school. This is when I first learned about this. I was totally oblivious and ignorant to this because I didn't know it existed. Okay. So in middle school and high school, I was bullied a lot. Not physically though. It was psychologically and in my time, you know, I'm a 1990 baby. Psychologically was never taken seriously. Psychologically was, I come from the time of sticks and stones may hurt your bones, but words can not hurt you. They'd laugh at that. If someone called you dumb or whatever or worst things like, ah, who cares? Right. So we'll skip middle school for now. In high school, I moved schools. I moved cities. We moved and I walked into school and from day one I was like just heavily, mentally like psychologically bullied heavily by everybody. And I didn't know why. And I'll spare you the entire story. We'll skip to the end. Senior year, high school, I confront my bully. Okay. I'm at a point in my life where I've gotten to a, you know, I'm in English class with him and he punches me in the back. The English teacher is this football coach that he's on the football team. And basically he gets away with it. I get kicked out because the teachers I think reliving his high school experience that he wanted to have back when he was in high school through being a football coach now. So this weird thing where they're teaming up and you know, smiling at each other like they look, got some deal together, weird stuff. So anyways, I'm pissed off. I just had to confront him. And the truth comes out. Apparently the reason he and the football team bullied me so much is because they thought they needed to bring me down a notch. They said when I first walked into the school as the new kid that they thought that I thought I ran the place because of my demeanor, because of how I looked, because of how I talked and because of the aggressive look I have. So they felt they needed to bring me down. Right. And when I heard this, it started clicking in so many different like friend groups and spots. I started bringing this up and asking if this was the case. And it ended up being the case almost 99% of the time, just always. So. In the cases is that you, your physical presence makes you come across as. It's it's confident or arrogant. I don't know if it's the physical presence. I think it's a mixture of like my face. Like I've like very protruding structure, like, you know, it's where the nickname ape comes from, like my whole, my entire thing, ape gang or, you know, the gorilla. It comes from people say I have these like protruding bone structures. You know, I have my side view, you know, I have like a built in umbrella when it rains. I don't need an umbrella. You know, my forehead is the umbrella. Right. And then I have these like dark black eyes that like stare, you know, people describe my eyes in my stream as someone that's been through six different wars and is like going through an active episode of PTSD and thinking of all the kills and deaths I went through like that. That's what I describe my eyes. Right. And then I have a deep voice that doesn't help at all. And doesn't help with what is it? What does it not help with the view that you're. Like this, I don't know, I think upon, I mean, I've talked to like my friends about this, too, like my friends that like I'm actually cool with and stuff. And they said, like, initially, they felt the same. And even every day they do, they feel like it doesn't it doesn't help with. So I'm a very passionate person. So I have to and my mom's always told me I have to be very, very careful when I get excited, because it's not like a normal person's excited where you can tell they're just having fun. I sound like I'm about to go to war. Right. So when I jump at someone and say, oh, I don't believe this. No, you're wrong. It sounds like we're about to go to into like a Viking, you know, verse Gladiator, Russell Crowe war. Right. We're talking like, you know, heads chopped off type war. Right. So. All these different things go into this. But on the inside. You know. I just love, you know, just love. But on the outside. People see war, but on the inside. It's not the case. Right. So I don't know. What's it like to be perceived like that, to be viewed as a Viking when inside you're a poet? Well. I don't know. I think the biggest, the biggest challenge of it all. Is. I think most of the time where others will get the benefit of the doubts, I have to work uphill because I won't get the benefit of the doubt. Right. So I have to like work uphill and that's why I'm paranoid all the time. I feel like I need to always be ahead. One step ahead. I feel like I have to always watch my back and be one step ahead of people trying to like do whatever, because I know when something happens. Right. The only person that's going to be there. I don't know. Does that make any sense? Like, I feel like I need to be ahead of it because the benefit of the doubt won't be the only person. The only person that's going to be there is who? Well, me. How long have you felt that way? Probably since like the bullying started in middle school. I think that actually. I you know, this is going to sound really weird. But. This is going to sound very weird, but I almost. I'm almost kind of happy. That I went through what I went through in middle school and high school, no matter, you know, when I think back to it and I told you the story, I'd probably tear up, but. I'm kind of happy it wasn't the other way around. I think it was the other way around. If I just either lived a normal one or I was accepted. I want to be who I am today. And I wouldn't have the confidence as I do. Right. Because I don't know. Does that make any sense? Yeah, I think sort of. I think it makes a lot of sense that. I think a lot of people, myself included, feel like our challenges and our difficulties are what make us who we are today, which I think it's really hard for people to understand while you're in the middle of it. Right. Like I remember when I was 18 or 19 and trying really hard to get a girlfriend and all I wanted more than anything else in the world. Was a girlfriend. And at the same time, I think that that was a really transformative and important period for me that allowed me to then engage in. You know, healthier relationships down the road, because I had to learn a lot about myself and like what. Just just how bad I was with women. And that's how you learn, right? Oh, 100, believe me. And so that's that's just part of it. And so I can understand where you're coming from. At the same time, it's it's hard to really fully understand because what I'm hearing from you is that there are some very formative and important experiences that you're actually kind of skipping over. Right. So you'll give us a lot of conclusions, but I don't really know the story. So you kind of said you confronted your bully. And then what came out dot dot dot was that essentially it sounds like they were intimidated by you. And and so so I mean, you keep on referencing middle school and you kind of jump to the end of the story like, but it's hard to really fully understand what you mean, because you're kind of glossing over like the beginning in the middle. Well, it's because I I wanted to save you the I. OK, so by no means do I. So what I'm going to say next, by no means am I meaning to. Say, since everyone now has a story that all of them don't mean much in the. Or, you know, I'll just say, I just wanted to skip through, because I feel like these days. See, these these are the takes that I say that I think also attribute. They attribute to it. So like, it's not entirely this passive thing that I'm that that isn't my fault. Some of my takes. Yeah, my perspective on the reason, the reason I wanted to skip and get to the conclusion is because. OK. This is going to be a hot take, and this is exactly what gets me in trouble. So I will take responsibility for this completely, but. I wanted to skip through it because I feel like every story needs to be a hot take. And I think that's the reason why I wanted to do this. I wanted to skip through it because I feel like every story nowadays starts with I was bullied, right? And. From my experience in my school now, I know there's millions of schools everywhere, but for my husband's school, the bullied was a very small percentage. And we all knew each other from different groups, but we all had a spot. It was almost like a movie, like an action superhero movie where we came together in a bathroom and we in public, we weren't friends. But in private, we had like consoling each other. What's the word is a consoling console? Whatever. Right. So I know that statistically, based on what I see and when I talk to other people that share the same experiences, that every single individual that's saying that now, it can't be the case. So now I just feel like it's like this cheap thing to say where I was bullied. So instead of going through the entire story, I just wanted to skip. I just want to start with that and then skip to the conclusion to what I learned from it and what I gained from it. And that's it. I don't want to like waste. People's time and telling a story that they've heard a million times from it. It just seems like the same. I don't know. Does that make any sense? I think it does make sense. I just disagree. So I think I think the conclusion, I mean, someone can hear the conclusion, but I don't think that's what really helps someone understand. OK, I understand it comes from the story. And you say like, oh, like just because everyone else is bullied, like I think that's kind of important, right? Everyone has their story to tell. You're right. Completely. OK, then I'll say I just I just OK. I'd love to hear. There's like certain things I try to stay away from. Why? OK, so for example, I'll give you an example to what I mean by this, so I can't get it into words and it sounds really bad. So, for example, with like my with my bipolar stuff, right? It's a very new thing. Like some some individuals in my community knew about this five, six years ago. But it's a very like new thing that a lot of people don't know about, because I was raised in an era where even though you have this and even though it may be responsible for some of the ways you may treat people, you still have to take responsibility for it and never should you never should come out of your mouth that, oh, I oh, you did this terrible thing. Oh, well, I bipolar. That's why. So either accept it, take it or don't talk to me. Like I've been taught not to do that. Take responsibility, right? Look inside and find a better way to manage it instead of prutching on this excuse that I have this. So since I'm brought up that way, I never bring that up. I try not to. I feel like blaming it on it is isn't something for others. If I want to if I know it's that, then I have to work that much harder around people to make that work. It's not that they have to work harder to make it work. I need to work harder knowing that I have that. So I was raised in this way. Whereas I feel like most people these days are raised in the other way where others, if they want to be in the presence of greatness, Tyler, they need to work around my bipolar and they need to do better. Right. I was I was I was raised the opposite. Yeah. I need to do better. Don't crutch on it. Don't use it as an excuse. Right. So because of these things, I don't have this like. I feel like when I talk about a bullied experience or I bring up a mental disorder, I'm now pitting myself and it's this very shameless, cheap thing to do. And it's like this week. No, I don't want to say week weeks. I wasn't raised to use the words, man. But I just. Do you understand what I'm saying? I'll say the words. So some people use mental illness as an excuse for being assholes. Yes. I'll say it. OK, great. So I think it's a huge problem. I was raised to take responsibility. So I think people need to take responsibility for their mental illness. I'll say I'm a fucking psychiatrist. My job is to help people take responsibility for the things that like hold them back. That's why I feel bad telling a bull. So I bring that example up because when I give the story, I feel like people aren't giving it the bully story. They're not giving the story of, oh, I was bullied as a way to explain I've been through that. I understand you because I understand me. It shaped me in this way. I went through this. I get it. People bring that story up as a ticket out as a pity. So I try to skip that story because that's the way it's perceived by most. But let me explain something to you, Tyler. This is exactly why you need to tell a story. Because there is a there is a narrative, which I agree with, by the way, of absolving people of individual responsibility because of certain things that happen to them. And I think some of that is fair, like, don't get me wrong. So like I have a policy where, like, you know, if I'm seeing a patient, I need a 24 hour notice for a cancellation. Otherwise, like they get billed for it. You know, and and so but there are some exceptions that I make for that. Right. So if you're like actively in a depressive episode that was not there a day or two ago. And you miss your appointment for reasons for your health. I won't bill you for it. So I certainly make allowances. But what I try really hard not to do is to let people use their illness as an excuse to not grow as a person. Because I don't think that actually helps them. I'm here to help them not to cater to a narrative that keeps them in place. And sometimes that means giving people allowances, and sometimes it doesn't. You know, so basically what I do when a patient doesn't show up for an appointment, I'll ask them the next week, like, hey, what happened? Do you have a good excuse? And then if they say yes, won't bill them. So be it. I trust you. If the depression got too much and you couldn't even email me, no big deal. I'm glad you showed up this week. I'm glad you showed up this week. But it's also like, did you just stay up too late playing video games and not wake up on time? If so, then you don't get to use your depression as a pass. And I do see this. I mean, I hate to say it, but I see it a lot where, you know, there's even there's even a term for it in the medical field, which is something called secondary gain. So it's when someone uses their illness to like get something. And we know that people have been doing this since the beginning of psychiatry as a field. And I mean, the really tricky thing is for some people, they use it as an excuse. And for some people, it's actually an impairment. And to be honest, for people who use it as an excuse, there's a really fascinating statistic. So there's this thing called a pseudo seizure, which is a fake seizure. It's not really a fake. It's just a non epileptic seizure. So it's like when someone it's like they're sort of having a seizure, but they're not actually like there's nothing going on in their brain in terms of like electrical activity that would cause a seizure. The really interesting thing is that people who it's almost like a it's called a psychogenic seizure. Some people think about it like a fake seizure, although I think that's a little bit unfair. But it's not a seizure resulting from like rampant electrical activity in your brain. Can you guess what percentage of people who have psychogenic seizures also have real seizures? This is the simplest question ever. And I'm overthinking it like usual. Sure. Just toss out a number. What percentage of people who have quote unquote fake seizures also have real seizures? Zero. Nope. It's about 50%. OK, I was going to say 50 first, then 100. Then I cheated off chat. Yeah, don't listen to chat. Don't listen to chat. So it's interesting because people who actually exhibit displays of psychogenic seizures, half of them have real seizures, too. So something goes on in the mind where like we sort of recognize like like citing mental illness has now become what sometimes is viewed as an excuse. But I think really what that is, is it's like it's a way of people. It's a way of signaling like, hey, I need help or like. I don't want you to judge me for this. I feel bad about it, but I don't want you to judge me because I'm already judging myself. That's what I really see a lot is that people will cite mental illness when they can't. It's almost a protective shield for them as they're seeing it. It's a protective shield for them against themselves, because if I'm a fuck up, that's hard to deal with. But if I cite my mental illness, then that's easier for me to deal with. Because then it's not my fault. But I do think sometimes people absolve themselves of responsibility. I'm not saying like I'm trying to be insensitive to people with mental illness. I mean, I like I just I think it genuinely holds them back, which is why, like, you don't want to just say like, yeah, man, it's OK. Like, you know, you know, you know, I trust them. I tell them, hey, do you have a good reason? Is it really illness? Why you didn't show up? And if you say yes, I'm going to choose to believe you. But if you just fucked up, like, because if you have mental illness, you can fuck up, too. It doesn't make you impervious. It's not like you get to fuck up just like everyone else does. Not everything has to be because of your depression. You can be a lazy asshole and be depressed and a lazy asshole and not be depressed. Do I think the people with depression deserve more compassion? No. Do they do I think they deserve more allowance? Sure. I agree with that. Yeah, I agree with that completely. What I'm saying and I agree with everything you said, I think it applies to what I'm saying as well. And I think to take it one step further, what I'm saying is, so if something is a result of my bipolar, right, I know it is. I was like. I will take the L for that, right? That's what I'm trying to say. So I'm not trying to say that. Yes and no. So like, just just a thing about that. So like, train, I respect where you're coming from. And I think that, like, you know, just to be clear, I think that if you have bipolar, it's your responsibility to manage it. And at the same time, what I tend to do is if you do everything that you can to manage it. And it still doesn't sometimes get managed. That's not your fault, right? So what I judge people for is not what happens. I judge them for what they do. So if someone shows up to my office, like every week and they're in treatment, they're taking medication like they're supposed to or whatever. And then one week they don't show up because they get depressed and they can't get out of bed. Like, that's not their fault. I give them an allowance for that. I like that. And at the same time, if they're not showing up and doing their work, like, I don't care whether they like, you know, they're allowed to miss appointments. The question is, like, are they doing what they're supposed to? And do they do it for the right reason? If the illness got the better of you, that's the way illness works. You deserve a break. Right. Like, we don't blame people for getting the flu. It's like, fuck you. You got the flu. Fuck you. You got hospitalized for COVID for a month and you stood me up on our second date. It's like, you know, cut people some slack. I will say if you get the flu, hey, stay at home. Yeah, these guys keep going. They keep going to the gym, touching everything, you know, terrible. No, but I completely agree with you. That's actually very good. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. Yeah. And I think, you know, sometimes there's also this interesting thing, Trane. I don't know exactly what's going on here, but like you seem to be judged a lot. Right. So you're like, you're trying not to say these things, which I think are like important to say, because I genuinely think when people use mental illness is an excuse. It doesn't help them move forward. Is it a debuff? Absolutely. Does it sometimes fuck with your life? Absolutely. Do you need more support? Do you deserve more support? Absolutely. And at the same time, don't use it as an excuse because it doesn't help. Yeah, I agree. I completely agree with that. Also, I think I think so in a perfect world, everything you're saying is completely right. The problem is. We live in a time right now, not even now, always, I think. I think it's just it's become more aware and connected because of the technology and the Internet where we know what's going on. Finally, we're never aware. It's not just going on in my town. It's going on everywhere. And it's this thing where. There's this impenetrable wall. Right. Metaphorically speaking. So that wall, that wall is the wall that we're all connected to. Right. Metaphorically speaking. So that wall, it used to be within each of us. And what that wall does is let's say I'm late to your meeting. I know I can use that secondary bipolar advantage and say, oh, it's my bipolar. Dr. Case. Sorry, I didn't mean to be late. It's the bipolar. I'm so second reschedule. Right. Now, if you call me and say, I don't think it's the bipolar, I think you're making an excuse and using it. You know, normally, you know, I'll probably hang up on you, say, screw you. You know, you're not my doctor anymore. Then I'll go into bed and depending on how I'm raised, depending on my morals, values and how well I know myself, eventually after two or three days of pouting, I'll realize, holy shit, he knows me better than I do. I need to talk to him again. Call you. I apologize. We see each other again. Now, in today's society, with everything being connected, that wall has fortified itself stronger. So now, instead of having the time to sit in your thoughts, knowing that that doctor that called you out on that is right. Now you can find solace or whatever the word is in thousands of accounts that share the similar experience that cannot handle the truth that you gave them. And instead of facing it through self reflection, they find comfort in others that further fuel their delusion that you are wrong and you're an asshole and you don't respect mental illness. And it is their mental illness that gets them away from everything. And it further pushes people down this delusion, this hole, and no one gets better. And everyone believes they have some. Does this make any sense? This is what I've noticed in today's time. So everyone thinks they seek the truth. But what they really seek is someone to tell them what they want to hear and label it the truth. And that is why I think these truthful scenarios that we're talking about, sure, they work in a perfect world, but it's not this world. People, does that make any sense? Yeah. So it makes a lot of sense. So here's what I heard you say that like when when you get called out for your behavior, you go into what I would call the waiting arms of the Internet. You go and you pry to your mommy in general, right? You're you as general. Yeah. Yeah. So like you go, these people, me included, go into the waiting arms of the Internet where I post something on Reddit. And then I post the story from my perspective, which is one perspective, and then it gets upvoted because it's just one perspective. And you'll see this like a lot in and you know, these these subreddits that are like they're they're not they're very transparent about it. They're like, this is what we're about. You you tell the story from one way and then you get upvoted and it makes you feel like you're right. No one critically looks at your thoughts. No one critically asks what happened on the other side. And so then you get vindication because 10,000 strangers on the Internet agree with you. The interesting thing, train, is that I think the solution there is so what people do is they look at the Internet and they look at the person and they blame them and they say this is bad, that the Internet should not be an echo chamber. And that's fair. The interesting thing I think that that really I found is is in a subtle point, which is something that I almost never do. So in the scenario you described, you said at some point, Dr. K says, hey, I think you're lying. I think you actually fucked up and it's not your bipolar. Well, yeah, I cut the chase. Yeah, I know. But I think I think it's a good it's a good point because I think this is really important. Yeah. So I think the key thing here is that it is not for the person outside to judge whether something is an excuse or not. So if my patient says, hey, yeah, sorry, it's my bipolar, I choose to trust them. Because if I don't trust them, what happens is exactly what you described. So if I kind of attack them for their mental illness, they're going to go and find some way to like mentally deal with that. So I think the interesting thing, I think this is this is where a lot of people get, I think, stumbled is that I don't think mental illness should be a mental illness. I think the, the the feather in your eye is that you're being accountable. But I think giving the shoes that it this person outside to whoPUI employees. But like I did a study the study took a couple of years from tweeted at that that he was brought down to rule out being a sponsor and calling them. Is exactly what I'm saying. So there's not a dialogue behind this is not a dialogue, but it's like paying for So that only happens in my experience with dealing with other people that have issues in myself in one of two ways. One, either you're raised by a, you know, emotionally intelligent and, you know, whatever the other one is. What is it? EQ? IQ? What's IQ? Either you're raised by a good set of parents that will teach you this as you grow up, will help you self-reflect, will, you know, talk to you and open you up and help you realize these things, or you learn it from experience because of the way your parents raised you, because of the good set of morals they instilled within you, whatever the case might be, right? I feel like today that's missing. So what happens is we're giving this benefit of the doubt to people that I don't know if they were, like, it's not, it's not their fault. It feels like there's a responsibility. I mean, I guess I guess I'm kind of, I'm talking way too general. I guess I don't have enough sample size, but it seems like the methodology of raising has changed. It feels like things are bulldozed more so than, like, parents are bulldozing for their children more so than, like, you know, occasionally scooping with a shovel, you know, some shit out of the way. It seems like it's a bulldoze miles and miles ahead, right? And what this causes is this lack of accountability and responsibility, which comes from that self-reflection. So instead of self-reflecting, instead of laying in bed and feeling guilty, that guilt is not there. So when you find comfort in finding others on the Internet that have gone through what you've gone through, it's that's the problem. You know, you're not seeing it ever at any point as wrong and learning from it. So when you're given the benefit of the doubt, it's not actually teaching them anything. It's it's does this make any sense? This is what I've noticed. Yeah. Just from observing. Does this make any sense? Yeah, I think it makes a lot of sense, Trayn, and I find myself wondering, I think the, interestingly enough, I think the most illustrative question then is how were you raised? So instead of making general talking about generalities and commenting on what you see. True. Show us. Right. So you have a unique opportunity here that you have an opportunity. So you see something. We see something. So show us. Show us something different. How were you raised? Okay, so should we start? Excuse me. I'm so sorry. Should we start with how I was raised or we go back to the bully story and finish that fully? You first. Let's start. I mean, we're talking about how people get raised. So how did you get raised? Okay. Before I start that, can I use the restroom? Sure. Real quick. Two seconds. I'll be like I'll be like 35 to 45. Maybe 50 seconds. Maybe even less actually 20 seconds. I don't know. I'll run. Okay. I'll be quick and I'll wash my hands. Okay. What the fuck is this conversation? Either he's got urinary retention from the NyQuil or he's washing his hands real good. Or a number one turned into a number two. Can you hear me, Trayn? Are you listening? Hey, man. Yeah, I was listening. But anyways, sorry, I was juicing up. But anyways, so yeah, last time, I think my deviated septum, they meant the breathing technique you taught me. Oh, do you have a deviated septum? I don't know. Okay. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Do you have a deviated septum? I don't know. Okay. My nose is huge. There's no way I get a deviated septum. I mean, look at these things. I'm telling you, these things, so in high school, I played soccer and I was one of the fastest. And I truly believe, this sounds like I'm memeing or making into a joke. I honest to God believe that these huge nostrils, which by the way, my dad's friend, which I love, used to joke and say that my nostrils are so big, the shape of my finger. Because he made this joke, oh, do you pick your nose in private and your nose shaped around your finger? Oh, but I think my nostrils actually give me the oxygen intake while I'm running to perform the speeds that I do. Does that make any sense? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I mean, through your nose when you're running. I don't know, actually. Yeah, I breathe through the nose and I breathe out of mouth, I think. Okay. I think. Holy shit. I think. Holy shit. That's a good question. Wow. I should think about that next time I do that. I haven't ran for like two years. Yeah. So anyway, so yeah, tell me about your parents. So here's the crazy part. My parents, they're happily married for a long time. I don't know how long, 40 years, 20, 30 years, something like that. But and they're total opposites, but they find like a strong connection through that. So my mom is very, my mom's really like conservative, not politically, just like as far as like not politically conservative. She's a Democrat and she's like, she loves Bernie and stuff. My mom is conservative when it comes to like, you know, crazy stuff. Right. So she's like, how do I explain conservative like more socially? Right. Like, so like she doesn't tell us. So my mom is more like she's like proper, classy, you know, any talk of like, like I even feel awkward saying that mixing two words together, sex, you know, because like that stuff, it's like, you know, you don't right. Yeah, just she's just proper, proper, proper. But she's not proper in that, in that way that you see in movies where like, you know, you know, the house on the prairie where the woman walks, you know, it's not like that. She's very like loose and cool and she's very social. And but for her, it's very, it's go with the flow. You know, it's go where the wind takes you. And, you know, she's a chemical engineer and she's very smart and she's very just easygoing and very cool and she's creative and very loving and. That's like you respect her a lot. I do. I do. And so that's my mom. My dad. Same thing, but the opposite. I'll tell you the opposite is. So the opposite isn't like perspective and view of life. My dad, very outgoing, like pretty much my outgoing side where I can just joke and talk about anything and everything. The moment we meet comes from my dad. My dad's very social, always making jokes, you know, very cool. But my dad, he has a different clock. He has a different set of values. Right. Everything for him is very objective. It's very precise. There's a routine, you know, he comes from like a military family. So, like, you know, he wakes up at the same exact time, sleeps the same exact time, you know, beds. The bed is like perfectly like, you know, corner tucked. Everything done. Everything is there's a clock. There's a time. Never be late. If you're late, it gets him very upset. There's no being late with him. But my mom, it's always being late. Right. My mom's always late. My dad's never late. So in respect to how like it's lived, my dad's are like mathematical, very precise, strategical. My mom is the exact opposite of that. So I, I, I, I, I, I like that. That's why I have this very. So people can't understand when I tell them I have two degrees and they watch my stream. They can't understand how the train wreck they watch can possibly sit down in school and finish two degrees. But the way I was raised is that there's a time and place if you're streaming, that's the time to bring your social side out. Have fun. Do whatever you want. Now, if streaming was schoolwork, then that's where people would probably understand how I got my degrees, because they would see a much more serious side of me that can sit down, organize things, properly get things. Does that make sense? Sure. So you say how are you you were raised? Can you paint us a picture? So like, what was it like in your house? Like, how did these things manifest these differences between your mom and your dad? Damn. Fuck, we need like seven sessions to talk about that. Give me direct. I've never really talked about them like that. I don't know. Give me questions. Just ignite. Yeah, sure. So like, like, does anything come up when you kind of think about when your mom was your mom and your dad was your dad and you were kind of caught in the middle or, you know, how you responded to like their differential views on time or studying or whatever? Or how were you taught that like there's a time to study? You know, I'm, I'm pretty sure the same way that you were taught this way to, you know, I was told to, you know, I was told to study, you know, I would say, you know, I would say I finished my homework, you know, my dad would look at me. He's like, you know, he give me that little eye, you know, everyone knows the eye, right. And at that point, I have that feeling coming in my stomach of shit, right? Which pretty much, you know, insert the Larry David, and then maybe skip five minutes. I'm sitting at the table doing my homework while the modems in their room, right? It's gone. The router is gone. Right. And no more internet. So, you know, pretty much rinse and repeat of that. Sure. Sure. You know, I was very, you know, I was very blessed because my parents put a lot of time into me, you know, my dad. So, you know, my parents came from Iran during the revolution, whatever the hell it's called, right? They came with having nothing at all. And my dad had four other siblings. So five altogether, including himself. And he's not the oldest. I think he's the second oldest, but his role was he took care of everybody. So when they came, they had no money. He had to work two jobs while going to school. And he ended up finishing school in three years instead of four University while working two jobs and supporting his two sisters and brother. Came out of school, got his master's and he started working. And that's when travel started. That's when, you know, my parents had me. Then I lived in Korea for three years because my dad's the company I worked for was in Korea. And he pretty much he puts everyone ahead of himself. Right. And everyone, everyone. And, you know, that put a lot of stress on my mom because she was always worried about him. And then that put a stress on me because if I misbehaved, I'd put stress into him. And my mom would cry because she thought that he would, you know, you know, he would pass or, you know, whatever, because of the stress. So I tried my best to do, you know, what I was told. But, you know, I was a kid and I was stupid. So. She thought the stress would eventually like, you know, stress of doing misbehaving would do him. No, no, the stress of everything going on. And I was a kid. I was dumb. I didn't want to do homework. I didn't want to learn. I don't want to do this. Right. I was a typical kid. Right. I just wanted to play games and not do any work and not do this, not do that. So, you know, so my dad, so I'll get to the part to what stressed him out. So my dad really cares. He loves me, cares about me and every night. So he would go to work, you know, from like you leave 5 a.m., come home, you know, 8 p.m., you know, and right there he, you know, get dressed for the home attire. And then from right that point, that point, what do you eat? That point, he would sit down with me and he would teach me math. Right. He would teach me from math from scratch. And we'd sit there until like, okay, I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. He was hands on with me every day teaching me. He was just so good at these things. And I, you know, in the beginning, I didn't want to sit down and put time in. Right. I didn't want to apply myself. I was kind of everywhere. So he put a lot of time with me and I love him for that to this day. I'm very thankful. He always put himself ahead. You know, if there was something he could, you know, eventually he got to a point at which he was like, oh, I'm going to go to work. You know, if I wanted something, I remember like he would sacrifice, you know, a lot of his own or like, you know, if I was hungry, but there wasn't any food, he would give me his and all these different things like taught me to, you know, give him food. And I was like, oh, I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to go to work. You know, take care of others before I take care of myself type of thing. Right. And unfortunately in America, that's not the way it works in America. You take care of yourself. And then if you have a little extra, maybe you give a little extra to others if you can. You take care of yourself. Right. So this really, I got taken advantage a lot for this, but I still haven't changed for the last year. I'm still a little bit of a person. I still do that. But what I'm trying to say is, I don't know what I'm trying to say. What I'm trying to say is they're very good parents and I love them so fucking much. Yeah, they're very, like very, very, very good parents. They taught me everything. I know it was two different perspectives. I go to I get two different responses, you know, on some things like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like you know, social things. My dad would give me leeway. He would understand and my mom wouldn't she'd be pissed. Because it's more proper. So an example, if I were to go to a party with my friends, you know, and I wouldn't come home that night and my parents are sick, worried about me, maybe on the phone with the cops. I had like, oh, it's all good. I know, you know, my man, good stuff. I know what you're doing. Right. My mom's like, wow. Right. Now, let's say I get a C on my paper. I was like, oh, it's okay. Just study. My dad's like, ah, right. So when it came to like academics, when it came to school, when it comes to like shit that like you need to get done because the 40 year old means going to regret the 15 year old me not doing it. My dad's going to be upset. You know, when it comes to getting into the wrong crowd of friends, you know, partying, drinking, hanging out the wrong girl. That seems like she's kind of, you know, you know, maybe I'll out there. Yeah, my mom's going to be upset. Right. So it was these different perspectives where it was just crazy. So I got. Yeah. So, yeah. It sounds like your parents made a lot of sacrifices for you. They did. They a lot. A lot and still do a lot. Just everything. Everything that it was. Yeah, they made a lot of sacrifices and. Yeah. A lot. Yeah, they were very good parents. Very, very, very good parents. Yeah. So it's kind of scary. I mean, did you guys actually grow up in a household where sometimes there wasn't enough food to go around? No, it wasn't. It wasn't like that. But. Like it wasn't like that. Right. But like if there was none that night, because like there was just nothing that night and there was like one food made, then like he would give me his. But then I would like cry and, you know, I wouldn't want it. But then he would say he's not eating anymore. Then I'd end up eating it. But I end up crying. And then I wanted him to eat. But he just like go ahead and he just pretty much. My dad was like, you know, he would just pretend he didn't want it or and this applies to everything. Right. So like he did. I don't know. Does that make sense? It wasn't like that. It wasn't like we were dirt broke going house to house. We were good. My dad sacrificed a lot. He was very successful. Yeah. You know, I was blessed in that way. Right. But. Do you remember why you cried? Well. Okay, let's see here. I think. Hmm. Let me think about this. How do we start here? How do we start here? Okay. Let's go to birthdays. So. There is a reason why I try my best. And I'm sure everyone can vouch for this. Like all my all my friends during all my friends birthdays on Twitch. I try to get them all presents. So I will go around on each of the birthdays and I'll whether it's just money subs or something. I always need to get them a present. And as far as like gifting subs, you know, I'm like I'm number two gifter on Twitch for subs and all these other things. This like stems from one thing from my childhood. One thing and everything stems from this. So I need to breathe here because this is. I told a story twice and I've cried both times. So give me a sec here. So. So. During birthdays or Christmas or any holiday or event where I would get a present or presents from my parents. I would always cry. And here's why. So there's two two things. First. Since I was never really the popular kid. I was always the popular kid. Two things. First. Since I was never really the popular kid and I was never really the cool kid that you know had a lot of friends, which I think leads to another thing where I feel like I need everyone to like me now. But anyways. You know birthdays wouldn't be what you see in like TV series and movies for everybody. It was birthdays would be like me and maybe like a couple cousins and like that's it right. And my parents would always try to like you know pretend like you know. I you know I had these friends and so they would like a presence and like you know. You know. You know give them to me on behalf of them or whatever you know blah blah blah. Now when you say blah blah blah it sounds to me like your parents attributed gifts. To friends that you didn't have. Yeah. So. So. Pretty much. So there's two parts of this. The first part is. Okay. So. The second part to the first part. Let me think about this. Why does this require so much thought. Because. I actually collect my. My emotions for a sec. So. There is a distinct feeling that I remember. Very clearly and very vividly. And. It's the feeling. Of knowing that my parents are going above their means to fill things that I wanted. And knowing they made this sacrifice. And there's a feeling of. Of not having the friends at the parties and not having a lot of people. There is a there's this feeling I remember. A deep deep pain loneliness a breaking of like the heart as they would call it. And I guess I do what I do today when I try to get to the bottom of it. And I guess I do what I do today when I try to give. So no one ever has to feel that because I felt it because of a cause and effect of that. So I don't want anyone to think I've forgotten their birthday. Right. So I try to be there and give them. What I think. I don't know. Does that make any sense. Yeah. Let me see if I understood you. So. It sounds to me like you sort of remember feeling lonely and also. In that same moment felt deeply loved and appreciated. While you were feeling under appreciated that your parents went above and beyond to take away something from you or protect you from something. And you sort of knew that they were doing that that they got you all these presents that maybe even they couldn't quite afford. To protect you from feeling the way that you did. And they didn't want you to feel that way. So they went out of their way. To try to protect you from those feelings. Kind of for them. Kind of. But I hate presence and I always hated presence because I feel so. So here's the weird part. For me it wasn't about the presence. I just I just wanted people to be there to have fun. I never. So I hate presence. I hate receiving stuff because I feel like I'm not worthy of it. Right. I feel like I feel like I need to. Do something good to receive a present. Right. So when I get the press when I know my parents are working very hard and they give me a present. I hate getting it. So I don't it's not that I wanted presence. It's that I just wanted the friends. But since we're over the Internet there's no other way to. I don't know. Yes I guess. But I always hated. Yeah go ahead. So OK. Thanks for sharing Tyler. So let's see if we can unpack this a little bit. Does that sound OK. Do you mind if I. I get up real quick. I can hear my wireless headphones. OK. Unpack it so I can walk. I just need to collect my. I need to blow my nose in the bathroom quick. OK go. Talk or do you need to see me. It helps if I see you it's awkward to talk to. And I'm OK I'll be very fast. I just have to blow my nose otherwise. Take your time. I don't want to start. So I'm going to get up real quick. I'm going to get up real quick. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I don't want to start sniffling in the camera and then it just becomes disgusting trust me. Trayn you seem very concerned. It's interesting right. So on the one hand you don't care about how you're perceived. But I think you own up to a lot of the way that you're perceived. You kind of joke about your forehead. And at the same time it also seems like you're very concerned about how you're perceived. So. No I'm actually talking to y'all Twitch chat. I'm thinking out loud but I know he can hear. I feel comfortable talking to you guys. It's just weird talking to Trayn if he's not there. So I do care I'm perceived 100 percent. I do care. It's not that I don't care. I do care. I think anyone that says they don't care. Yeah I do care. It's that. It's that. Since I've taken a lot of criticism on how I'm perceived. Since I've taken a lot of criticism my whole life I can handle it well. So it seems like I don't care. Or it seems like I'm trying to say I don't care. I do care. Right. I can see that. Does that make sense? Yeah it makes a lot of sense. Yeah so I do care. When someone describes their forehead as an umbrella that protects them from the rain. It implies that they're comfortable with the way that they're perceived and the way that people talk about them. Right. That's what it suggests. And at the same time I'm noticing that it actually matters to you a lot. I think that there's a lot of interesting stuff for lack of a better term about. Yeah so let's go back to the gift giving for a second. We'll talk maybe about it. Yeah let's go back. Go ahead. So I mean what I'm hearing you kind of say is that you sort of don't feel sometimes like you're worthy of the gift. And that too sort of makes sense because what I'm getting is that your parents made a lot of sacrifices to get you gifts. I think to me the gift was their sacrifice but I don't think they thought that I understood at that age that their sacrifice was worth anything because I was young and I thought gifts and toys were everything. I think they thought that but I at that age I saw their sacrifice and every night their sacrifice would make me cry every night because I wouldn't. For how much they sacrifice. Why would you cry every night? Because I saw what it was doing to like their health. I saw like I could see my dad aging. I could see my dad was already doing so much and I was not. I don't know. That's why I would cry. Does that make any sense? Yeah. I would cry for many reasons but that's one of them. Yeah. So I so I them being my parents was gift enough but they didn't know that. So when I get a gift I would always cry and I wouldn't want to accept it but they couldn't understand because they thought I didn't know. Does that make any sense? So well they didn't know that I was aware of the sacrifices they'd make. They didn't know that like I could like overhear conversations of like things they had like you know if they were behind on things but they would sacrifice that and put it toward me. And act like everything was okay. I knew these things were going on but they'd still do them and they'd take the weight of the world just to make me believe that everything was okay but I knew everything was not. So it's that feeling. That's what makes me want. I don't want people to feel that. So that's why like so for example I have these like advice streams and I try to like I try to like you know I'll pay for like psychiatric or psychology sessions. I don't want them to feel what I felt of. Why do you think your parents did that for you? Because they love me. I don't know right. I mean I think that's a that's a good answer. I think it's certainly true. But I wonder has it ever occurred to you that the same thing that motivates you to help other people is what motivated your parents to do that for you. Yeah well it did because it was only me they did it for. I remember he would do it for a lot of people like so he coached my soccer team as well and yeah there was like yeah I'm not going to that's a tangent but yeah. I mean so on a very simple sense it sounds like you're trying to protect people from the hurt that you experienced. Yeah but the hurt is in a lot of places we're just talking about one of them and the other one I couldn't fully embody into like I couldn't fully put into words for the birthdays and the holidays and like the friends I couldn't that one wasn't coming out clearly but yeah for this one instance. This is one of the many that we can talk about but yeah I guess yeah. The second one was something around loneliness. The second one was something around loneliness. Around loneliness that was tied to my yeah yeah my parents would try to yeah make me feel not and I just wouldn't feel yeah it ties into their they would sacrifice more and more just to make me feel. You know I don't know it wasn't just all gifts it was love and affection too but I don't know yeah yeah yes we'll just say yes. I mean it sounds like that they made a lot of they tried to really help you feel better and they they did a lot of things behind the scenes to create a particular kind of experience for you. Yeah. What was it like to be able to see backstage. It gave me a lot of perspective a lot of character. It it taught me to you know. It taught me that time and my quality time is more important than than money and that family is more important than money and that you know take you that kind of like yeah I don't know it just yeah I guess yeah I guess just. I don't know. I feel like I feel like I couldn't fully put into words what I wanted to say and I'm like we're like six chapters in the chapters one two and three I couldn't fill fully for you I don't know does that make any sense. I think it does but I think that's okay. I think sometimes you know there sometimes you you know much like a good book you really figure out what was happening in chapter one two and three in chapter 25. True right. Okay that makes me feel better. Yeah I mean I think it's clear that your feelings are complex and that there are many different nuances to them that there's a sense of appreciation and also what sounds like some something like a shade of guilt to be honest. That you know you recognize that they were making a sacrifice and you appreciate them for that and there's also certain sadness of like. You know when your dad chooses to give you his share of like whatever has been made and like you end up eating it like that's gotta it's hard to receive. The kindness of another person who has to give something up to give it. Yes yes. It can make you feel not worthy. Yes. Right because who is truly worthy of that like I mean your dad doesn't. He doesn't feel like he's worth it. He doesn't feel like he's worth it. Yes. Right because who is truly worthy of that like I mean your dad doesn't there's something about that that's just horribly unfair and you're kind of the recipient of kindness which on the one hand is good but like not at such a cost. Yes. You know I mean that makes a lot of sense to me so. It does no it does yes 100% it does. Yes sometimes I think it's it's hard I think the interesting thing Tyler is that I'm not sure if that still carries over to today. Do you still feel like sometimes you're not worthy of the kindness that you receive. From my parents. I would say it's. From my parents yes. It's not the. I would say it's. It's not the. I would say it's. From my parents yes. It's not the. From my parents. I don't know if it's right now at this stage in my life I know I don't know if it's a word it's more so about. I don't know I mean I know I turns are proud of me. Tyler let me ask you something. Okay go ahead. What could. Your dad have done. To. So so you understood that they made the sacrifice you appreciated their sacrifice and at the same time you experience some degree of pain from that does that make sense. To answer your question before you're the next thing right here. I don't think there is anything that they could have done differently I think that the pain that I felt was because. I knew that that is pure good and and because it's good. What I felt has made me do what he does on to me. On to others. Right like so the best way I can explain this is. There's no way I can explain it but I don't think there's anything different you can do I think he did exactly what any good person would do that love somebody. That's why I don't think there is any there is no perfect in this world that you know it everything comes. With its opposite it comes with its right. Right that's what gives you the perspective that the duality of it right like I don't know does that make any sense I don't think there's anything makes sense and and I'd encourage you to to think about it slightly differently. So that your dad taught you pure goodness. Right. Is that right he taught you pure pure it's not yeah sure it is. Okay yeah okay go ahead what else do we call not eating to feed your child. Pure goodness. And so so I also see that you have. You have taken what he taught you you've made it a part of who you are and you try to do it for others right you said that your dad puts everyone else first and you don't it is you still have some strange feelings around receiving gifts. But you're you're very particular about giving gifts. And yet receiving them is still hard for you. So like let's try to like try to understand that for a second so I think the crazy thing here is that. Can I tell you a story yes please okay maybe this story will because I i'm going to make a couple of assumptions about how Iranian culture and Indian culture are alike similar. So when I was first kind of like not first but like you know after i'd been dating my wife for a while or maybe we were engaged I put we were probably like engaged. And you know one day I went home and she came with me, so I was at my you know my parents house and my grandmother was there. Is the first thing that that happens when I come home is is you know my mom and my grandmother asked me what do I want to eat. And I don't want to burden them right so I say like whatever is easiest. And what do you think their responses. Any idea. So you asked your parents what you do not burden them. No no no so yeah so I know I said they they're like what do you want to eat like when you go home like you know I don't know if your mom tries to like cook your favorite dish. Oh go ahead right and and so so so they're like I'll look what do you want to eat and I say like whatever is easy like you know. Don't inconvenience yourself from my side right make sense right so so and then what what you think that like calms them down or riles them up. Riles them up why. Because damn right why. Damn right why. That's a question I still have yet to answer because that's what happens back and forth. Yeah yeah so so like the interesting thing is like you know sometimes like what happens like it you know is that people want to take care of you. Yeah and and if you tell people like yeah like so they would and then what would happen is they like ask me a thousand questions so like do you want this do you want this do you want this and I'd be like whatever is fine like everything's fine. Like really like whatever is easy like please don't do and then get like more and more riled up. Yes. Because they wouldn't know like here's their you know son home from whatever like back from Boston and I I'm in medical school and so they're like oh you're home and like we want to you know they want to they want to show their affection they want to show their love. So they asked me like what do I want to eat and I'd say like whatever my wife is like you're driving them fucking insane just it doesn't matter what you want to eat just pick something. Because they you you owe them a simple answer so that they haven't seen you in two months. They get joy out of watching you eat you come home and you say you just pick something tell them I want to eat this and then when they make it you shove your face full of it. And then you tell them it's delicious it doesn't matter what you want it doesn't matter what they want you just say something and then you accept what they give you and you appreciate it. That make sense completely make sense yes right yes and so when it comes to the gift giving. I get where you're coming from that you want to protect like you want to be like your dad said some did something so awesome for you and if everyone in the world was like your dad the world would be for the most part an awesome place. Maybe people would be freaking out about beds not being made but you know people would put others ahead of themselves. And so in a weird way. I think one of the simplest things just think about what it would have done for you as a kid. If like he knows like you know he's hungry he knows he's hungry he doesn't want to accept or doesn't know that you know and while you eat it there's a part of you that feels like hurt because like you know he's sacrificing ensure it's a beautiful sacrifice. But it brings pain with it. And sure there's something about duality and something there i'm curious. You know how do you think it would have affected you if your dad said like let's say there's one you know piece of bread left or something like that and you guys went absies. How would you have felt if he had taken half of his portion. I think giving me half or giving me full. It would have the same exact effect. Okay it's not for me it's not so for me it's not the it's not the actual food that's being given or the amount of it's it's the intention of the of the it's the inception of the thoughts. Thoughts. That is there instantly instinctually it's there to give it to be willing to ready at any call at any chance at any second to give it right it's the thought it's not the actual action of it's it's that it's there like that's why for me. When people reach out to me like let's say my birthday right. If just the little reach out that isn't for me that's enough right and for a lot of people I think that's enough it's just it's it's the fact that it's there. yeah so so Tyler yeah so I make okay i'm with you in terms of the portion, so let me put it this way sometimes a kindness that you can the biggest kindness, you can do for someone else is to let them do a kindness for you. What do you think about that. I think it's completely accurate so that was going to be my next point right so and I think when it comes to like gift receiving yeah. So sure you feel guilty on some level, but remember that like something about your feeling of guilt is depriving them of their intention to make you feel a certain way. I think here's how I actually think it is now tell me if you feel me on this okay okay I think the guilt that I felt and that I feel. Is the very response that is most appropriate for their action, because if I learn from their action and if I were to be good and understand what good is and putting others before yourself. I would have to feel that way if i'm actually learning from them and I was going to do that one day I didn't feel that guilt and I just took. that's when you become shameless that's when you're no longer aware of the other's emotions you're no longer aware of the other person's experience that they're going through and what they're losing by giving you the piece, so I think I need to feel that way in order to reciprocate. So let me ask you when you when you give someone else a gift, do you want them to feel guilty. I think guilty is the wrong word it's not it's not guilty that I felt it's it was it was. it's not the guilt isn't the right word that the word I felt. was it softened my heart, it made me ache for a moment to know that this existed that this was the closest thing to a superhero right we all see our parents as you know this or that. As fortunate ones, at least I don't want to assume everyone has a good relationship, but you know, especially in our cultures right like I would say like it's. The feeling shapes me. it's the good in the I felt. The good in the world right that's what I felt. So that feeling naturally. If I myself am not some crazy sociopathic serial killer naturally no matter what I feel, I feel good. So that feeling naturally. If I myself am not some crazy sociopathic serial killer naturally, no matter I mean listen, this is why I wouldn't say it out loud. I accepted the gift to make him feel that he had no idea that I was sad in his decision, so I allowed him to feel good by giving me the gift I held that inside knowing that so. That knowing is what allows me to learn from that grow from that and it's it allows me to shape into that to do it myself. So doing it my does that make any sense. Makes perfect sense right so but now you guys are playing this little game. Of i'm going to sacrifice more i'm going to take the pain from you i'm going to eat this thing, because I know it makes my dad feel comforted that there isn't enough food for both of us. So what you do is you you you receive his goodness and you sacrifice because of it right. Yeah. And so what what i'm hearing from you is that the world is a place where pure goodness is represented by sacrifice. You want to feel guilt. It's how you know you're doing it right. You're becoming your father you're putting other people first and you can't put someone else first without someone taking a loss. Sometimes yes right serious occasions like. Fine yeah yeah I guess maybe yeah. Tyler so like like the interesting thing I think it's beautiful don't get me wrong and I come from the same culture of sacrifice yeah. Right so i'm with you that I think the world is sort of changing the way we're real boomers now because we talk about kids nowadays. But I do think that you made a good point that in America it's help yourself first and help yourself second it's a it's a very you know like like anyway so it's different right so in in a lot of like the. Like Middle Eastern South Asian East Asian i'm not sure about other parts of the world because I just don't know those cultures as well but like there's a very community aspect the community actually comes ahead of the individual it's just a different value system. Yeah I invited you know what the car is. Mm hmm. Look hard the streamers so I invited him over and when he came over I gave him my master bedroom and my master bathroom and I slept in the guest room on like this very like shitty bed. And he couldn't understand why the hell with this guy and I mean his house and give me the master bedroom master bathroom master bathroom everything good and sleep in a creaky old bed in the guest room. This is just this is my culture, this is how I was raised right now it's not everybody in our culture because i'll tell you what my cousins if they had one last for roll up. That's you know they hounded me though argue hit me pull my hair it's theirs when I had one last for roll up my dad Tommy listen we can get more another time. Let your cousins have it that's the way I was raised right give it to them don't worry you know take care of yourself last make sure they're good they're your guest right. yeah. So no one understands and I think the call you was confused which led to another story but. That's true yeah so so let me kind of like ask so so i'm with you that that oftentimes sacrifice. That goodness so goodness to you feels right when it comes with a sense of guilt unworthiness or sacrifice right now I know i'm not perfectly capturing this because I think that there's but. But so here's here's the thing right so in the in in the same way that you decided to eat the food so your dad could have the feeling of like. Okay like I did the good thing and my son is eating because like he feels the same way right like you're helping him feel good through sacrifice. Yes. And then and then the big thing that my my wife taught me is that like that's something. You know sometimes the best way that you can feel is sort of like what you said you just you take one you just take it you take what other people have to offer and that's actually the best gift you can give them. And I think it's it runs contrary to our cultures of like taking is bad but at the same time it's really like a next level play and I have never seen my family be happier than when I sometimes become a taker you know i'm careful about it. But now I have this thing where like when I visit my in-laws like I just ask for one thing every time I go pick one thing and fucking ask for it. And then, like my my mother-in-law is awesome and she feels just so much like then she gives me the thing I enjoy it fully and then she's a happy camper i'm a happy camper and all I had to do was be a little bit of an asshole and ask for something. And so in a weird way Tyler what I what I'd encourage you to do is like the next time you receive a gift. Give someone the opportunity of just receiving it and give someone the opportunity of doing. Of accepting it just like you did for your dad. And that you don't have to feel like you can you accepted something from your dad and it came with guilt and so I think your mind is somewhat conditioned for like when someone gives something to you like you feel guilt fine like you can see how those two experiences are connected. And at the same time let go of that guilt. As best as you can try to just accept what people have to give. And that understand that on some level sometimes the the best the the best sacrifice the purest goodness that you can have is one of sacrifice, which is something that I think is like very well represented and explained in Christianity. Right so that's like it's like an age old kind of thing that like the the bigger the sacrifice the better the good. Right so that's like it's like an age old kind of thing that like the the bigger the sacrifice the better the good. But I think that there's also like a different perspective which is that sometimes you can just accept other sacrifices and you don't have to feel guilty. Which I know sounds bizarre to you and that's why I encourage you to just accept what gifts people have to give and and acknowledge that when they're giving that gift the last thing they want you to feel is guilty. They're giving it for the same reason I mean just imagine if other people feel guilty when you give them a gift and sure there's a certain amount of like paying it forward that you want to do you're demonstrating to them sacrifice your. I just feel like I feel like I feel it's my responsibility to to know when they're sacrificing and to feel that I'll accept it I'll make them feel good and let them do the heroic deed. But I feel like I need to see that and reciprocate the favor and get them back out of there does that make sense which I think is completely natural it's how people should feel does that make sure so yeah. Get them out of there in terms of what. So let's say I'm in a tough spot right and you know someone reaches out gives me a gift helps me out right I so if they've sacrificed something giving me that because they you know. They can maybe take a couple days without eating so I can eat that one day then I feel like I need to come back and he gave me a plate of food I need to give him a restaurant sure does that make any sense like I was talking that old school mob type stuff. I'm saying like yeah you you feel me yeah yeah no but yeah I feel like I understand what you're saying. Yeah so I just want to make sure we have time for the bully thing but I don't know if we do yeah for that not so much but I mean is there something we can because I think you know we tend to get. Talk about things somewhat deeply so I think we kind of cover less ground but if there's something you want to say about my only concern about the bully thing is that we wouldn't have enough time to do it justice what do you think. Yeah I mean I I can never get to any of my points and I feel like today yeah so yeah. How do you feel about today. I feel like every time I have a car I've how I feel today is how I feel every time I have a conversation with someone that I enjoy the presence which is there's just never enough time that's why I feel. I like you I like you it's it's fun talking to you it's fun yeah I just enjoy talking to you you know just. Hey it can be anything we could bullshit we could talk about a horse and I'll have a good time we talked 45 minutes about horse bleeding out I can stretch that out. I'll start the tail we'll go to the hooves we'll go up the you know ankles we'll talk about the bony structures we'll talk about muscles I'll stretch that out for two hours and I'm a pro at this but. I just I just fun it's just it's it's it's nice to. Talk to someone that's it's why I enjoy among us a lot it forces it forces interactions that I feel like this generation is completely lost it forces 10 people again to a call it forces us to. Be in situations that build stronger relationships right nowadays friendships over there and they have no challenges and when one challenge happens everyone's ready to just run and disappear. Because it attacks what they've hidden deep inside their mind that no one can have a blah blah blah but anyways yeah I really enjoy these conversations so how I feel today is how I feel when I have a conversation with anyone that's fun to talk to you. What I'm hearing is incomplete. No, no, no, it was very complete it's just that I just want to talk about you know I wish we had 15 hours straight you know I feel like I wish we both could just go six coffees each talk 15 hours straight you know and just. Bullshit around have fun together you know. Can I offer my perspective yeah of course so. I want to talk more to I think one of the things that I found is that. The longer a conversation goes like I feel like I have a certain amount of hard drive space and that hard drive space is about 90 minutes and that what I find is that if I keep going there's a lot of fruitful stuff but I tend to start overriding the stuff at the beginning. Interesting so. So that 90 minute period you have where you start record or writing onto your hard drive. For me. Booting up yeah for me so the last 15 minutes is the information is real information I can get us somewhere and the other you know 75 minutes all that was just a little bit of a Just complete like an utter just bullshit right so maybe I need to just wake up and look and talk in the mirror for like 45 minutes to myself and get all the bullshit out so when you when you and I start I can start right at the good stuff you know what I'm saying. Well yeah but I just to play devil's advocate there for a second I think there was a lot of good stuff so so just as an example so I have a hypothesis that you're very concerned about you know your perception and how people treat you. That you're very confident in yourself and at the same time there's this weird shit about the paranoia like why those phones need to be in airplane mode like. It sounds like you were concerned about something getting out in which case then no. It's because okay so the way I talk and the generation I came from with the friends I had the way I talk it's very loose and it's from a generation where everyone gave each other the better for the doubt. So when you come from a generation where everyone gives you the better for the doubt everything you say it's taken in a context that is the least harmful in the sense of like you know you're not the best person to be. Everything you say it's taken in a context that is the least harmful in the sense of like you don't mean it in a way where you're this terrible person right he was just kidding he meant in this context relax. Nowadays we live in the total opposite nowadays the worst possible scenarios found the worst possible context is applied and that's the way it's written so nowadays with the way I talk I speak very crazily right. I've I type the same way right whether it's males females anyone you know I've told Tyler one and other streamers that they have you know sexy eyes and I went a little deeper into sexual stuff with you know these guys I just I talk very loosely. And the problem is here's the problem the way that it's represented by whoever represents it if they introduce it first they get to dictate what the context is. And I know anyone that does not like me will always dictate the context. In a different way and the things that I say are very important with context they're very important you remove the context they could be very serious and very bad so I think I am way. Yes, so when I'm having dinner with two friends off stream and I'm talking freely I might make a joke that I know me and my friends there understand the context of and we know it's not harmful. The problem is if that would be recorded and someone were to introduce it with a different narrative line there is nothing I can say or do. That will ever prove that it is the way I meant it it is always forever going to be taken away by the general public because there's no way they can understand. What I meant and since we talked about before of how I'm perceived kind of this like terrible evil like villain. That's the way it makes it even harder for me to battle that so I just take precautions because I know that does that make any sense. Yeah, I mean I think that makes a lot of sense I'm I find myself being curious, but I think you know there's a lot of questions from that like you know why are you perceived as a villain and where does that come from. But I think that sounds like it's a whole other conversation it is I'll keep this one very short but sure we'll talk about we'll talk about a little later. So there's this weird like double side to this half of it. Half of it I. I have my opinions I have my theories and it sucks and I don't like it the other half of me. Feels like it's necessary to be seen this way it's a very weird conflicting to different sides that I have in my head right now that I've always had so. Because of my experiences to the bullying in middle school high school. Because and and a little bit of college because of that it fueled me to do whatever I needed to do it was my fuel I learned how to take people's hate doubt. And turn it into fuel right. And that's why even I mean even if people don't like me here they can they can. They have to admit themselves when I've had hordes of people hating me way outnumbering me I've still kept going right where others take months breaks because of one I hate thread you know there's been hundreds that I just use as fuel. Now here's the reason why half of me which is unhealthy thinks it needs to be there. I've learned no other way to move forward besides using the doubt and hate as fuel. There was there was a week where I remember I was cherished and praise I think it was during the Australia wildfires where we did this big community events and I was I was like cherished and praise and was all love and good and for that entire week I actually. I almost felt like purposeless I felt like I I was I had nothing fueling me to prove people wrong and. Do something and I I actually had no I had no motivation at all and then, as soon as the first hate thread came back of train wrecks being an asshole or a hate piece of shit. When that came and I saw that it invigorated me it refueled this flame in my eye where I wanted to go to the next step just to. You know it does not make sense so it's this weird thing where I hate it because i'm not this person that I look like I am but, on the other hand, as soon as people start seeing it from the inside I lose the motive it right because my primary field was that it's so others wrong I don't know. I think it's like sense. It makes a lot of sense Tyler I think a big thing that i've noticed is that we tend to stick with the patterns that are adaptive it at one point and then sometimes they become maladaptive. And and they no longer are ideal for us but it's what we know and it's what works so like substance use I think is a really good example of this where. You know people can have bad feelings and then what they find is that there's something that helps those bad feelings go away. And and so, and it can work, you know, for a time and in your case it sounds like it's still working pretty well, but I think that sometimes it's bizarre that you know we propagate things that seem like they're bad, but the reason we propagate them is because they work. And that's it you know it's it's not that uncommon, but I think I think we can dig into it, how do you feel about meditation today. We can try it oh that's that's what we're going to talk about remember last time we ended on substance use I was going to tell you about my my long yeah next time I guess we'll do that next time you know i've had i've dabbled in. And I hate talking about it in this mood because it sounds like i'm bragging is it's some sort of experience that no you know. There's the concern about the perception again you see that like so much of what you say like your mind automatically goes to. I hate to say well. I just want to take it the wrong way, but yeah you know I shit like you know. I went through four years i've done a lot of you know i've i've you know. yeah I did I wasn't like heroin for like three four years you know I tried meth once. i've done a lot of drugs sounds like dangerous I was young yeah I was like 18 to 18 like 23 28 and 23 I think I tried these things and. i've never been to i've never been to one rehab but I like this is the this is the dangerous part be careful about that. I've never been to i've never been to one rehab but I like this is the this is the dangerous part be careful about I like I self taught how to quit. And that's what we're going to talk about into this one since you're a addiction psychiatrist but we'll do that next time okay some crazy i'm telling some I got I I ended up one of these nights. I ended up. In a neighborhood. And my friend takes me to this party okay so i'm gonna leave it on a cliffhanger here i'm not gonna end the story so. I do drugs these kids. And I end up at this party in the avenues of Arizona right avenues are not a good place in Arizona so I definitely avenues. i'm in a neighborhood I walked in this party supposed to be this cool party fun I walk in and the first thing I remember I saw. Was. Black duct tape. Going straight from the double door of the front of the house through the middle of the double door zigzagging perfectly splitting the House i'm like what the fuck like is he taping down an ethernet cable I didn't see anything was just a flat duct tape. So I look back up I walk in I make it to the main portion on the right side. There was a bunch of people in blue shirts and attire on the left side red I was at a neighborhood peace party between gangs. And this story was so fucking insane i've told it once on my stream. But these are the things I went through doing that phase the three to four year phase of like the usages the things that I. Lucky I made it out alive I mean let alone the drug itself, but the situations and the people have brought around fuck that that's a story for later that that was. Crazy stuff happened later that night you know there's helicopters choppers I was in a car with random three people it was bad but we'll tell that next time it was some insane shit. Okay, so trade that's not does sound like quite the cliffhanger man. Oh okay okay. I'll entertain stream you go pee and then right when I see you coming back all pee and then we'll wrap it up in like 15 minutes. Oh no socks yo doctor cake up some socks on my man. What's up guys you know I feel like. I wish. I wish I can pick and choose when to come on within the like hour of having the show but it's like so selfish and irresponsible of me to like expect that or want that. There's days where I can speak to people and I can't even talk to them and I can't even talk to them. I wish I could pick and choose when to come on within the like hour of having the show but it's like so selfish and irresponsible of me to like expect that or want that. There's days where I can speak eloquently which is very rare but there's days that that's there those are the days I want to come talk to him so I can freely express everything i'm feeling it like in an organized way today is not one of those days, as you guys can tell. I wish I could pick and choose when to come on within the like hour of having the show but it's like so selfish and irresponsible of me to like expect that or want that. I wish I could pick and choose when to come on within the like hour of having the show but it's like so selfish and irresponsible of me to like expect that or want that. It's the birthday it's the birthday thing I want to clean that up because I feel like I didn't properly get it out and there's no response needed I just want to clear I just feel like I didn't explain that properly. Then again I feel like it's awkward now re-explaining it. You know, because I was like a soft moment and now I'm not in a soft mood does that make any sense anyways sure so. Actually I guess we can revisit that later. Okay. But in that time I was going to use to answer your other question before I kind of just jumped away and went into different direction you asked why I was why I felt like I'm seen as the villain. So I want you to be honest with me okay when you look at me okay look at me. Do I come off initially now I know you're wise you know I'm not calling you old. Kind of you're not old but you know you're older than me I think then again wait maybe not anyways so. Damn I just called you old I'm so sorry but anyways no no I'm I'm just I didn't get perceived as you calling me old. Oh great what you look great by the way amazing skin amazing hair. What I'm what I'm what made me laugh train is just how tuned in you are to how people perceive you and how you affect other people. Right so like you're there seems to be like a constant program in your mind about how are my words it's kind of good right so it means that you're like very empathic. You're kind of constantly tuned into like how how am I being perceived or my words being understood you know you're always asking does that make sense. It's like it's sort of like there's a second monitor in your mind that has this program about how are my words being you can call me old I wouldn't mind. I was laughing because you called me wise and I think I'm not that's why I was laughing like if if you only knew I mean I get I'm wise. Oh no no believe me I've already in my mind at the very least and this is going to sound very pretentious of me but. That right there we just said if you only knew I've already believe me I'm already assuming. Okay how can I say this psychiatry and like it's obviously psychiatry go to med school and stuff psychology you know it's a little different. But in order to have in my opinion a decently high social experience which you are sorry social intelligence which I think you do you have to have quite a bit of trial and error. Quite a bit of different experiences and you have to be able to think. Think into a situation that you mean the point is I believe me I've already calculated things I'm not putting you in as this holy grail of a God and your you know God's left nut. And you're you know this pure thing that touches water water turns into wine by no means but that's exactly why I think you're wise and I think you admitting that you're not wise is exactly why you are wise right but anyways the point I'm trying to make is when you look at me. Okay I have black hair black eyebrows I have black eyes I have very very deep voice and very passionate so I my voice my voice raises very quickly which to others it would be a slight raise but since my voice is deeper it sounds like I'm yelling and ready to. You know call the trumpets of war or the horn of war right and I think that's the point I'm trying to make is I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. I'm trying to make you think about what you're trying to do. Most people answer that as the asshole. I wouldn't describe you as approachable, but I think that there's like, it's not either or. Do you look approachable? No. But I don't think you look like an ass. Because let me tell you, assholes come in all colors, shapes, and sizes. Oh, I know that. I know that. But I would agree. I think you can be intimidating. I think you can look intimidating for sure. Certainly. I think a deep voice, a certain confidence, and I think you also... Yeah, I think intimidating is a word I would use to describe you. I think so. I wouldn't describe you as looking nice. When I think about people who look nice, I think about like, you know, babies. I think about babies. When I think about people who look nice, I think about like, you know, babysitters that I hire for my kids. Like, that's what I perceive as nice. They're like little old ladies. Yeah, so in my opinion, and I'll wrap this up, I'm so sorry I'm talking your head off, but so that into any aspect, for a lot of people, it causes a fear, right? And here's what happens, right? This is the same thing I talk about. I talk about this on my stream a lot. I have this thing where I talk about certain things where people think I'm gay, okay? Now, it's their very understanding and misunderstanding that makes them think this. It makes them think that if I look at another man and I think that they're good looking, that has to mean I'm gay. If I smack their ass or they smack mine out on an issue with it, I must be gay. But this isn't what defines whether you're straight, gay, bisexual, or whatever, right? So my point is, it's the fear, it's the not knowing that causes these ignorant beliefs of what makes you what, right? So that was very quick with that example. I know it was very sloppy. I'm trying to be fast here. So what I'm trying to get to is that intimidation that others see, it causes a fear and an ignorance. So when you see that, you want to either get away from it completely, shut it out, get it out of the screen, or you want to get out of a position or you want to bring it down. And that's what I feel like almost every single encounter I have initially starts as until there is an opportunity where we can just talk and hang out individually, right? I'm always starting at a position where I need to work uphill. Does that make any sense? It makes a lot of sense. I think it goes along with this theme of like, you're judged, Tyler. And people have perceptions of you and you're very careful about how you manage those because it sounds like when you haven't been, you've been burned. That's what I would hypothesize, but maybe a conversation for a different day. But I think you're very careful about how you're perceived. You're very in tune with what people think of you. I don't know why that is or where it comes from, but I certainly see it and I think it makes sense. So recently, last thing, I swear, last thing. So recently, I'll give you an example of why I'm like this and why I'm like hyperactive in this area. I'm very paranoid. Recently, there was a situation where I did something, right? And it was a very, it was a very like big something like monetarily. And when someone looked at it and looked at me and thought of me, the immediate reaction was I need to find why he did this. It can't be good. It needs to be bad. So narrative was created as I did it for free advertisement, right? And then you have someone else that does a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of it. And they did it for the advertisement. But the way they're perceived because they have a more humble look is wow. Even though, you know, even though this right like others are given the benefit of the doubt, whereas for me, anything is found that matches the way I make them feel. Does that make any sense? So because of this, I'm very I'm very paranoid and I'm constantly like trying to make sure it's not I'm not taking the wrong way. And I'm I feel like does that make any sense? Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I don't know. But anyway, I'm sorry. I can go for hours. Yeah, just take the Rams wrap it up. I apologize. No, that's OK. I think it's not bad. You know, I mean, everything you say, train, I think triggers things in me and everything I say triggers things in you. I don't mean trigger in a bad way. Like, for example, hearing that and, you know, we'll see if I can man, should I restrain? I don't want to restrain asking the question, so I feel like I want to ask a question more just to solidify it in my mind as opposed to get an answer from you. But how does it feel to constantly be judged like that? To not be given the benefit of the doubt. To have all of your actions scrutinized, your words scrutinized to be misinterpreted. Anyway, but you can tell me whether we, you know, because you say you're what's it like to be paranoid? What's it like to need to be paranoid? I think is the deeper question. There are a lot of questions left. I'm with you there. So maybe something to think about. You tell me I can tell you. You tell me I can tell you. Okay, I'll tell you now. So here's the way I see it. If you remember, we talked about my feeling, the need to take an L or to take a set to sacrifice to make others feel good. So I see. So it's not that I feel sad for being judged. You know, I mean. When we get deeper into it, I'll explain. Obviously, I do have my moments where I'll just, you know. You know, being bad and I'll just know that never mind. But the point is, it's not that I feel sad. I see it as that's the sacrifice I take. And it doesn't matter if others. I mean, I'll fight it still don't get me wrong. So it doesn't matter. I want to say doesn't matter. But that's the sacrifice that that's the L I take knowing that there are people's lives that are changing from what I'm doing and knowing that in order to continue to change lives, I need to keep taking this L doing what I'm doing now. On the other hand. On the other hand. What unmotivates me. Is. I'm cool with making that sacrifice. But. What makes me what chips away at me. Is. The people. That are the true villains are praised as the heroes and given the credibility of the heroes. Which in line creates a system that's never going to fix itself. Because the very trickery that got us into the problems of the system in the first place are continuously happening just evolving to be more advanced. And then the people who actually are putting words into action and not just speaking in this idealistic way, but actually putting the actions behind it. Are seen as the villains. And since the villains that are labeled as villains are the ones that are actually proving with action. And the heroes are only talking. No change ever happens. And we're stuck in this perpetuating endless circle of corruption. Shit and trash and no one can understand why. This is happening, but what's happening because no one can actually look into themselves and realize. So does that make any sense? So this time. I'm going to say I completely lost you, bro. When you started talking about corruption. And the real heroes are being perceived as villains and the villains are being perceived as heroes. And like I could follow like pieces of that, but I feel like there's just so much to that story. Which you started to toss in, which I honestly I don't know like what like who you're like. I just don't have the context. We talking about your English teacher. Are we talking about people on Twitch? Are we talking about people like talking? So I'm talking about the very thing that that. Being so getting to a point of self awareness and getting a point of knowing yourself would bring this out in people. I'm talking so what I'm talking about is. So what I'm saying is. Train I got to jump in for a second. Sorry, I don't mean to leave. I'm sorry, but I just need clarity for you. I'm happy if you want to finish that thought, but I do have I actually have a client this coming. I'm sorry. Yeah, so do you want to learn how to meditate or do you want to finish your thought whichever? OK, let's meditate and often I'll think more clearly and I'll come back next time more clear. OK, yeah, so I didn't mean this. You know, I just I do know you're sort of a limit. Actually, you let me know four different times. I should have that was that was shameless of me. That's my no. I mean, I played ball, right? You would say something then I would get curious because what you say is really interesting. And I do feel like we could talk for 15 hours. I don't doubt that for a second. I think it'd be fun to let go camping, you know, and just just hang out in the wilderness for a while and talk. And I got stuck in a rant because I when I talk, I see it. Yeah, so I yeah, so I get stuck in a rant. Yeah, the reason I was I was jumping in there is because I literally this is the first time I think you've been really clear, but I just don't have the context to understand what you were saying earlier. Yeah, it would take. So yeah. So let me ask you, I kind of feel like doing a particular practice today that's a little bit different. Do you want to repeat that? Do you think it would be helpful to do the same practice we did last time or try something else? Honestly, I think. Hey, you know, you take the reins and all all right with all right on. I won't write on you. That's a little weird. I'm so sorry. All right. You lead off. Okay. So let's so what I want you to do sit up straight. I'm going to teach you a practice we haven't done a little while for a little while on stream, but it's called charging the laser beam. And that's something that that someone in chat came up with. So the actual so this is a technique that's sort of an introductory practice to third eye meditations. And third eye meditations are about cultivating like insight, intuition and understanding. That's bizarre. But basically, last time, you know, we taught you a breath meditation. So now I'm going to teach you a meditation that involves focusing essentially just focusing on your third eye. So what I want you to do is, you know, it's going to sound kind of look weird, but I want you to take one finger. I usually actually use the middle finger, which I know is weird, but there's a reason for that. So what we want to do is take your middle finger and actually hover it just sort of right between your eyebrows. Don't touch. Yeah. Close your eyes. Just hold it there for a second and try to get close, maybe like a centimeter away and focus just a little bit above your eyebrows. Sit up straight. I want you to just focus on any sensations in your forehead. Tell me, do you feel anything? I feel my middle finger tickling the little hairs of my forehead. OK, so try to pull a little bit away to where they can't touch. And focus on those sensations. So if it's actually touch on hairs on your head, you want to pull a little bit further out. And just focus on that part of your forehead. You can go ahead and relax your hand now and let your let your focus maintain on that point. Good. And try to drive your attention into it. Good. Just keep pushing. We'll practice for about 60 or 90 seconds. You can focus on sensations on of your forehead or just moving into that spot. For lack of a better term. I'm on that spot right now. Good. Keep your attention there. We'll go for about two minutes. I leaned back and I lost it. Give me a sec. Here we go. OK. OK. OK. Now I want you to take your finger and move it back to the spot. Focus on your forehead. And now relax your hand. We'll continue for about another minute. Now I want you to take a deep breath in through your nose. Breathe out slowly. Again. And out. And then in for a third time. Super slow out of your nose. Super, super slow. You're ready. Open your eyes. What was that like for you? Calming, soothing, peaceful. I feel like I want to go get a haircut, but skip the haircut and just get the shampoo part where I get the head massaged. You feel me on that? Yeah. Yeah. That's what I feel like. Awesome. That's the best part. That's the best part of the haircut, by the way. Yeah. You have very nice hair, by the way. Thank you. So do you. Really? Yeah. There's a fun fact I'm going to give you. I was supposed to. That's what the doctor said. I was supposed to lose all of my hair. Well, the top part of it. All of this was supposed to be bald by the end of my 18, year 18. By the end of 18 years old, I was supposed to lose it all. And my parents. Yeah. Well, no, it's my dad's bald. My mom's dad's bald. My dad's dad's bald. And my parents cared so much. I didn't have the I didn't have the sight to see that I care myself. I was so short sighted. So I would kick and scream and cry. I didn't want to do this. Do that. Now I'm thankful every day, but they would take me to laser treatment, you know, propisha. They take me to, you know, get the liquid regimens done, stimulating of the blood in the scalp. And I've kept my hair. Crazy. Cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No hair transplant. Nothing. Just laser treatments early. So crazy, crazy little story. Yeah. Cool. Thanks for sharing. Yeah. Take care. I thought you should know. You too. Have a good Labor Day. Is it Labor Day? Yeah. Jesus. Wow. All right. Well, have a good day, man. Hey, Dr. K. I love you. I love you too, man. We'll reconvene and get into the this time. I'm going to write this down. I want to get into the juicy deep stuff that no one knows about or no one's heard that I've never talked about. That's the stuff. You know, the stuff I've always gate kept because I wasn't sure if people would understand. I feel like with you, I feel comfortable that you would appropriately take it. So next time you have time, just message me whenever I don't want to like keep messaging. I know you're not going to say no. So can you just message me when you think it's appropriate? I come on next week. Continue that. Just in a month or two months or message me. Sure. Let me know. We'll tell you. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Let me know in the next like week when I should come on. Okay. Whether it's two months from now or three months from now or now. Will do. All right. Love you. Thanks for sharing, man. And thanks for coming on and have a good day. Thanks for having me. You're great. You're great too, Trane. Take care. Everyone. Hey, everyone. Twitch Prime sub to him right now. Twitch Prime right now, guys. I'm telling you. Twitch Prime. It goes to a good cause. Twitch Prime. I know you guys have it. All right. Love you guys. Bye. All right. Take care. All right. Take care. All right. That was fun. What to say, huh? With Trane. Good guy.