 Yo Mitch Hello, how are you? Good, man One second. There we go So you hear me you can hear me right? Yeah. Yeah. All right cool. What kind of got a weird setup going on here? weird meaning I'm just holding my mic up with a glass cup here. I don't know interesting. Yeah do what works right my friend Yeah, yep. Yep So how you been man? I've been alright. How have you been? busy Yeah, same very busy Not really used to being so busy for sure Yeah, and so so tell me what have you been kind of up to it's been a while since we talked I've been up to just I've I stopped streaming like five months ago or so and I've just been like on a different journey completely That's kind of what I've been out to Yeah, I saw you were streaming a lot of Wow and it seemed like it was really going well Yeah, no I kind of with like shadow lens came out and my stream was actually had peeked at like the highest heights I'd ever hit but I was still just like super unhappy, you know, so I kind of just was like Why am I continuing to do this? It's like yeah, I'm successful and like I have like on the outside It all looks good, right but on the inside I was I was not good. So I just decided to try something else Wow that seems hard to do I Mean it was actually not that hard I kind of just was like my heart just like knew it had to be done, you know, like I Just I just something inside of me just told me like There's got to be more to this life or something, you know Like cuz I mean I'm assuming a long time and I feel like I've been in the environment of just gaming and playing games For you know, ten years or so So I just wanted to like throw myself full-fledged into something else and see what happens Can you help me understand? You said that there were like things were going really well, but like you just knew on the inside that it was not right Yeah, like that like career wise everything was going well, right like from the outside like from perspective of my internal Happiness and whatever is like guiding me. I don't know like my spirit whatever you want to call it Like just I just felt deeply sad inside like after most of my streams I would just like kind of I would like take these long showers where I would just let the water just Slap me just lay there and slap me and I would just cry for hours like this was like a Ritual of mine while I was like streaming Shadowland So it's like I would go live and I'm like all good when I'm live But then it's when I turn off the camera and it's just me alone. I'm not okay, you know, so I just realized like Why am I lying to myself? You know like no amount of money or success from twitch or any of that Egotistical stuff that I was chasing years ago is going to make me happy and it Shadowlands was like a Realization for me to really figure that out. It was like oh This doesn't make me happy, you know I thought if I had all the viewers and subs and all that I would be good But I was I was worse than but when I wasn't you know, so it's like yeah That's how I knew I just I needed to try something different it was like it was time for me to try something different and And Wow, man, that's That's big bro Yeah, I mean it's definitely been a journey for sure, but I've been I've been on a spiritual kind of like Growth path for a couple years now. I never really shared this with twitch chat because I didn't think there was much relatability there I thought it was you know more so I just come on play my game get rank one You know, everyone's like, you know thinks I'm a good mage and it's all good You know what I mean? But yeah, I've been on like a spiritual path for a while now and it's it just kind of all Hit me at once where I'm like Yeah, I don't know. I just need to like follow my heart or something like that I don't know if I could sounds cliche, but I don't know Yeah, you know, there's a reason that cliches are cliches That's true. Yeah, that is true, right? And it's I when I hear something like follow your heart It's the kind of thing that like a lot of people say but I think very few people truly understand and like when you understand it it feels Like it makes so much sense Yeah, for sure. It does make so much sense. I mean just you know, just six months ago Well, I don't know. It's like everyone thought I was happy, you know, like literally my friends They were like everyone thought I was happy I was I'd like I don't know like a lot of viewers playing Wow Shadowlands and I don't know from the outside I guess people just think that's happiness right like just like like Financial or like career success is like sure. It's just like I don't know I just I really am struggling in this world to find deeper meaning than that, you know, cuz like yeah I'm just I really do want to find something deeper and like a way to express my like the real parts of Me that that I haven't been able to express through streaming just because I feel like with streaming It's it's not as like as an emotional of a connection with the viewer that I would like I guess so that make sense mmm, yeah, like I Go ahead. Sorry. No, no, keep going man No, I was just saying it's hard for me to can relate to like to the viewers that I had like playing Wow and All that it just didn't feel like I was making that like real emotional connection And whenever I would try and like open myself up, it's like people didn't seem to really care It was just pushback like, you know, like dude shut up. Just play Wow, whatever, you know, so it's like I don't know I just want people to like to that's why I started music cuz like it was just me alone with like a microphone and I could just like express my my soul in a way and like I Just want people to be able to listen to that that version of me Rather than like the version of me that just had to you know, be this like sort of character to on stream If I don't know, yeah So I'm hearing that you were sort of living a fake life on screen Yeah, well, I was just trying to portray a happy version of myself when I wasn't actually happy So if that's fake then I guess yeah, but I was trying to portray a put-together happy Normal functioning human when that was far from the reality that I was actually living. What was the reality you were living? Honestly just hell like I I really feel like streaming has done a number on my mental health over over the years and I don't Say that with like obviously streaming has done a lot of good things for me, you know, so it's not like it's all bad I'm just saying there's there's a lot of things with it that that sort of did a number on me over the years and I wish I had like sort of taken this leap of faith sooner in my life to be honest with you because I've been very much so a lot more Myself and able to express myself and just be happier in general since I stopped streaming but a lot of the reason that I kind of was took this leap of faith was just like obviously, you know the wreckful passed away and that was a like giant moment for me to be like wow like This shit is never the same for me again like for real that was like a moment where I realized it would never be the same again and I don't know. I think a lot of other broadcasters talked about how wreckful touch them or whatever but like I Just I had like a super deep friendship with Byron for many years like we go back to like 2012 playing You know cataclysm wow together before twitch was even really a thing and before anyone made like any money doing it So it was like to me that event just like hit me like a brick and it still does and I sound like Yeah, it's like I don't know. It still really haunts me though that he's gone Can you help me understand what changed for you and Byron passed away? I Just realized that I Don't have as much time as I thought, you know, I really realized that It's not like like I was always living in the past hoping that the past would happen again and then once he Passed away. I realized the past will never happen again, and I need to stop chasing on to something that doesn't exist anymore Damn dude, that's deep Yeah, that's we said That's kind of how I feel about it. So yeah, I'm very thankful though for all the twitch stuff I'm very thankful though for all the twitch stuff. You know what I mean? Like I had a great career It was dope and I'm hoping that I am really hoping that I can express myself in a different manner and people will be Okay with the deeper parts of me, you know, not like the shallow fart jokes on twitch But like the deeper parts of me, I hope people would like want to see what's up with that, too Yeah, man. What so help you understand a little bit? What is it? What is it that makes you How can I say this so it seems like some people are really happy with a slice of Mitch Right, not the whole pie. They're good with this. Yes Yeah, not for sure. Go ahead. Sorry, and and so I'm just kind of wondering a little bit about like you know Why does everyone are not maybe not everyone but but you know, what are you looking at? But but you know, what are you like would it be okay if people weren't happy with the rest of the pie? You know what? Yeah, I'm sure Cuz I'm getting it No, I was just like I'm getting a sense that you want to share more and you want to connect more and yeah, I'm a little bit confused because it seems to me like something about our language is kind of falling apart where I'm getting a sense of Words that sound like you're looking for approval But the feeling that I'm getting from you is not really about approval at all and I just want to try to understand that you know that boundary between like giving people what they want and wanting them to give them more and like Wanting to give them something authentic and wanting them to accept it Yeah, that's kind of the way. Yeah, that's that's probably how I would say is like I Just want to be my authentic self and make art rather than just like, you know I do something deeply meaningful for like me I guess you know, like I want to I want to do something deeply meaningful for me and I have like a weird story I mean and I feel like a lot of people might be able to relate to that weird story. I love to hear it Yeah, for sure. I have a I have a crazy story like with with all all of it I mean, I don't we don't probably have enough time to go into everything Yeah, I have a really really uniquely odd story and you know I might just be some dumb kid from Baltimore or whatever like I've never really struggled financially because I've had like, you know The twitch success from an early age and stuff But I think that actually may be a part of why I fundamentally have grown up awkwardly if that makes sense like I think I Didn't really understand at like a young age what I really had and it's like It just sort of took control What is what did you have at a young age I? Was just fortunate enough to not grow up financially struggling like I grew up, you know going to private school all of that and then I Got big and started making money on twitch. I was like 20 21, you know So it's like I didn't really have the traditional like glow grow up and it's like I feel like as I got more successful I became more lonely It's like a weird like double-edged sword type thing Yeah, so I've had like the Material things that humans like search saw like search after right? but I never really had like deep love or anything that I really felt like I could connect to like on that level and truthfully like I'm a very emotional spiritual like person and I've never really shared that I always kind of dumb myself down and made myself out to be this just like clown stir Wow player right and for me I feel like that was I did myself a huge Disjustice and it just this justice in that way. I I Regret doing that a bit, but it's like at the same time. That's what made me successful So it's like it's just you know fighting the double-edged sword that is I'm sure there's a lot of parallels like this with any career path right so yeah Yeah, I mean, you know I It's interesting I find that the double-edged sword isn't so much with the career path, but is more with us Cuz I hear it and But at the same time I'm kind of hear you loud and clear because I think that it's it's you know You can easily make an argument that There's a cost To being a successful personality on the internet Yeah, and there's like I just wish I had guidance in any way like I didn't really have much family guidance going into this like my father was always pretty much like a Just obsessed with his work and his his business and all that and like he and I told you you know But the situation on my mother she's you know, she's not really able to be there for me because she's extremely ill and then I have a brother with autism who's currently in some mental hospital probably like I don't know like the last time I spoke to him was like a year or two ago and I don't there's just a lot of things that weigh heavy on my conscious and Yeah, so like from the outside I had all this fucking success and all this shit what it's like it I I just it didn't do anything for the pain inside man like I really feel like I had a I had a really good thing with like a couple friends I met like reckful being one of them and It's like I don't know. I feel alone in the world but it's all good because I I Don't know I'm just I'm gonna find a way to like shed this pain, you know one way or another When you say it's all good Help me understand doesn't seem all good No, it's not. I'm not all good right now, but I know in the future I've like I've done a lot of work on like self-reflection and like, you know Just pretty much just like emotionally like become more intelligent and not only that with like body mind spirit chakras Whatever you want to say. So eventually I will do the work that is necessary to Be a human again, but right now I'm sort of doing I'm just kind of seeing I'm on like a path right now that I have to see through if that makes sense Yeah, so you got it. You got to get to the end of your journey and yes is maybe the tough part Yeah, it's kind of the the dark valley that you have to get through to kind of come out the other side Yeah, for sure. Yeah and I Can I just think for a second Mitch Absolutely, man. No big deal. I Feel like I'm playing a lot of catch-up because I I think It's it's clear to me that you've been walking a very serious journey for some time now Yeah, I'm just trying to recalibrate from the person that I first spoke to because you seem like you've changed a lot in a good way Oh I've definitely changed you know when you sort of just have to look at yourself in the mirror and just be honest like that moment happened to me and Let me tell you the person I was looking at fucking hated. I hated the person. I was looking at That's why I was like who I I I just saw this insecure sad dude running away from everything that makes him hurt and just hiding behind this mask of like Streaming success or whatever you want to call it just like sort of maybe I wasn't like Hiding full-on hiding but I was definitely running away What like my anxiety? my anxiety and all the things that I have like held deep inside myself I Just ran away from them, you know, it goes back to like me feeling like I don't really have many deep connections You know, I really don't have Anyone to really call, you know, it's like if I feel like for example this talk I'm having with you I don't feel like I could have this talk with my own father and he's like the only one in my family that he is even like coherently enough to like hold a conversation with me and That sucks What what what gets in the way of you being able to have a conversation like this with your dad He just isn't there emotionally for me and he never really was I Think he's working on it now that he's getting older. But at the same time, I I think to my father I'm just some sort of like prop to him like it's like I'm his only son that is like functional and has a career and is doing stuff and like he to him I'm just sort of like Like his only thing to carry his name or whatever you want to call it I truthfully I think if I had an older brother that was doing other things my dad would never even talk to me That's actually how I feel Wow Yeah So I'm kind of almost hearing that your value is sort of not based on you as a person But sort of like the role you fill Yeah Yeah, you're like the carrier of the legacy Yeah for sure and there's some crazy things that I've gone through with I don't know how personal I can get but there are some crazy things that I've gone through in terms of just like betrayal in that regard where I was just like put in charge of things that I really shouldn't have been at a young age, you know, I Mean you can share You understand twitch terms of service better than I do I'm happy to hear whatever you want to share but also, you know, you don't you don't have to talk about that stuff I think there's plenty that we can talk about in terms of a spiritual journey, but For sure. I just think if yeah, it's nothing like TOS or anything like that It's more of just like morally incorrect things that have sort of happened I guess but yeah, like we don't have to dive deep into some deep crazy stuff if you don't if you it's up to you Well, let me kind of lay out how I think about that Mitch and then you tell me whether we should dive in so what I'm hearing What I'm hearing at the core of it Is that there's Mitch Jones and then there's Mitch Right. There's like the streamer personality. There's the I still remember the first time we talked. I Still remember you kind of said but it's all good. I'm Mitch Jones And so I think it must have been like over a year ago, but like that man just the way you said that really encapsulated That there's like this persona on the outside and then there's like the person inside like moving the levers Yeah, for sure. And on the outside it looks like a big smile and lots of fun and inside there's a dude who's like Exhausted and sweaty and like can't get a breath of fresh air Yeah, for sure I think the Mitch Jones thing you're talking about is is gone now like I even when I'd yeah Even when I stream shadow lines, I was not really putting on an act. It was more of just like Being myself playing wow and trying to put out the best version of myself But truthfully Mitch Jones the streamer whatever person persona, whatever you want to call it I think that person died when wreckful When when wreckful died like truthfully like I I just I couldn't do it anymore and um, yeah Yeah Do you remember earlier when I was like I need a second to process because you seem like a different person Yeah, for sure. And I need to catch up I think what I'm grappling with is that I don't I don't detect a whole lot of Mitch Jones So I was like wait, this is weird Yeah, I think that's weird. I think that's weird. I think that's weird A whole lot of Mitch Jones, so I was like wait, this is weird Yeah, no, I've really I really dug into myself and that's why I start that's why I changed you know from twitch streaming to like music because I just want to be Me and Give that you know, whether it's painful or not Like I need to give whatever it is that my soul is like it's just I need to just be open heart I don't want to be a closed heart anymore walking around, you know So I think that's sounds like it's i'd love to talk about That when it comes back to your dad, I want to just share a couple of thoughts So what i'm really getting the sense of is that what you want more than anything else is to be connected And that there was sort of like a farce that you could put on because at the end of the day There were like a couple of like people like Byron Who you did feel connected to? And so that was kind of enough but really losing him has helped you realize like you really need to be seen You need to be heard you need to be I don't even want to say accepted but You need to be treated with authenticity And even if that's acceptance, that's fine. And even if that's rejection if people say like your music sucks Oddly enough I think you may be okay with that as long as they're straight with you that they see you for who you are And they say this is not for me or this is for me you're actually okay either way Yeah, i'm good. I i'm like I said, I I know Who I am and what I need to do, you know what i'm saying and um i'm more so just trying to Show a deeper side of myself and I am okay with acceptance or not acceptance either way It's like, you know, i'm not looking for validation externally I'm more so i've done the work internally to be able to share what I have to say I guess rather than just giving this Uh, I don't know. I think streaming in general has just changed a lot and uh, I think the game now is more just like it's just A big pr fest of shit and it doesn't really feel as genuine as when I was a part of it back like five six years ago And i'm just not really down for the game anymore if that makes sense sure You're you got too much actual living to do to be pretending to live Yeah, I mean i've been in the back end of streaming and like the forefront of streaming for a long time Like i've seen it all so I know I just know and I know it doesn't do anything for like for like A deeper meaning it doesn't do shit like you know, sure Yeah So uh kind of the reason I mention this is because if we think a little bit about you know The stuff potentially like the weird stories of uh, you know, whatever betrayal or whatever Yeah, if what you're looking for is connection Right, because that's really what i'm hearing is that yeah, exactly exactly. It's exactly what i'm looking for. I just want people to Feel me for me because I gave people this thing that wasn't me and I just like I feel like I want people to really feel Like the actual me, you know, and it's not like an acceptance thing. I just need them to know before I go That that's like That that person is and was there because people seem to have this like preconceived notion of me Uh from years ago how I was like a jackass and all that but that that was part of the job for me And you know, and I feel like I was creating a show whereas like now I just want to be Uh, I just want to be seen for who I am not for like Something that was built as like a career if that makes sense Okay Sounds wonderful And also i'm a tiny tiny tiny bit alarmed Because you said before I go I'm curious. What do you mean by that? Uh, I I more so mean like before I just drop off the social media grid, okay Yeah, like I I have a long-term plan of just ending up not in the public at all, you know Uh, it's kind of just like like I said, it's hard to Really be an actual like human when you have to look at all of these different opinions of you every single day And yeah, you can just not look at it But like, you know that shit's like like how do you create art without connecting with your you know? The people that are following that you know i'm saying so yeah Yeah, so what i'm kind of hearing is that? You're on a journey to find who you are You want to share that with other people they can accept or reject it But that being engaged with them in a social media pr fest Will actually negatively impact Your journey because then it'll be about giving people what they want and you need to pull away from all that So that you can continue to create Yeah, for sure. I think being truly creative and especially in an artistic way Like whether you make art or whether you're a musician or whatever you do I think it's very important to be In at peace with yourself and really be able to express yourself, right? Like if you're living this like reality where you're just juggling like five different different like, you know The social media sphere where it's like a ladder climbing reality Like if you're living that then I don't think you can create like true art in my in my opinion and like i'm just trying to really Paint a beautiful picture of some pain that i've gone through, you know Yeah Yeah, it's interesting. I think You know what we create Is content Yeah content there you go So fucking soulless Yeah for sure You know It's interesting because even even here at healthy gamer what we create is content And yeah true. I mean it's all content, right? Yeah, so I I think it's interesting because I think internally we we also have a you know, kind of a process of like You know, what do what do we want to do here? Do we want to grow or do we want to help people? And sometimes those are at odds with each other For sure, and I do think sometimes people get caught up in a good thing. That's bad for them which is I think what I think sometimes There's good things that are not the but it's not the correct thing for people but because it's good They stay doing it and they're not unhappy, right? Like it's like someone that has you know, a crazy position at like some job that they work for and they're making You know a lot of money or whatever, but they're just like they're not really fulfilling themselves In a way that like their deeper self wants to like express itself Yeah, so how would you know? Well, I knew when I just look in the mirror and I wanted to beat the shit out of that person in the mirror That's what I knew I knew I I just knew like, you know It just hit me like but but I only was able to get to that point because I was doing like off stream I was doing work on myself to like because I was just extremely depressed I was you know, and I was like, how do I fix this? Like I've always been a problem solver kind of guy So I was like, how do I fix this? and the only way I was able to really like I'm it's not like I fixed it but the only way I was able to like get pieces of Uh the pain to like sort of shed off of me. I didn't have to wear it as much was just through Like the things that you taught me like meditation Really diving deep into uh, just yoga Uh, definitely food that you eat all of that You're like cleansing my body sort of like enabled my mind to like shed that pain And it was a painful experience and for a while I was absolutely crazy But I came out the other end knowing a lot more about myself even if it was a painful journey to go through Can you tell me about that journey? Sure, I mean I I was nuts for a while like I was on like I tried all these diets. I tried like keto I tried Intermittent fasting I even fasted for 10 days straight where I didn't eat anything I just drank water for 10 days I did all of these things just like because you know, I was just researching like on the web That's where I've learned everything is just like on the internet so you kind of have to decipher like what is valuable information what isn't and not like be an idiot about it, but Uh, yeah, I was just like sort of like teaching myself more about the human body and the human mind how it works all that so I think I Don't know I think I definitely learned a lot but it was a painful experience for sure So Mitch, I'm you you kind of you'll use these words that have a lot of volume But i'm not quite sure what i'm hearing. You'll say I was crazy for a while So i'm getting that. Oh, well you were on the outside. I was crazy. Yeah, what does that mean? Well, a lot of people I feel like would view me as like crazy or something if i'm just like doing all this like it looks manic like sort of Right, but to me it was like something I had to go through. Does that make sense? Sort of Because I I don't i'm like I can understand your conclusion But i'm having a lot of trouble understanding like, you know when you were doing let's say keto or intermittent fasting What were you experiencing? What were you looking for? What you know? I get that you come out the other side but cleanse. Yeah, I was looking to just cleanse spiritually mentally physically all of it How did you know you needed to cleanse? Because I was miserable I was I had the most anxiety out of any human I'd ever met I would wake up every day and constantly check my heartbeat just to see if it was beating and if it was beating too fast I would assume that i'm having like a heart attack or something Like it was like I was literally crazy with anxiety and the only thing that gave me a little bit of peace from that was cleansing my body uh, like truthfully like if I had kept eating the same way and keeping the same stress levels that I had from streaming and I stressed myself out with streaming because It was always like this like numbers game, right? and like if I if my shit wasn't doing well like I had to pretty much just destroy the part of my ego that gave A fuck about streaming because that part of me was destroying me whether it was like making me successful or not That part of me was absolutely destroying me and I literally had to just kill that part of me because Living every day just like like if I had a bad stream the rest of the day I would feel like I was a failure. I was a loser. I was a fuck-up. Whatever, you know And I just had to destroy that part of me because I literally could not keep living like that How how do you destroy that part of you? Just taking a lot of time off of streaming and healing and not looking at social media going for walks in the woods becoming A fucking human again, you know, like that's what helped me a lot actually was just Not being plugged in and just being completely unplugged sort of living a boring life for a while But that boring life sort of gave me Uh, I guess you could call it a dopamine fast for a long time, you know Yeah interesting Um, it's funny a couple weeks ago speaking of content. I I did a I did a a quick debunk of the dopamine fast and and talked a little bit about it, but um You know, it's interesting mich because I hear you say you had to kill that part of you But what i'm sort of hearing is that you sort of let it wither out and die Is yeah, yeah Yeah, I would say withered out. Yeah, I didn't just like slay with a sword die. It's sort of It died a slow painful death. Yeah for sure But it eventually like I said, I came out the other side happier Like even today like i'm still sad like obviously in this conversation It's a little bit more sad because i'm digging deep into the things that I still haven't really Come to full fruition and like dealt with right? Um, there's still a lot of things that hide inside of me and I have to deal with those but yeah Yeah Yeah, I mean I think that it's important to remember that the goal of spirituality is not to not feel sad anymore Because sadness is a part of life It's to sort of feel peace or tranquility in the face of sadness Yeah, for sure in the face of excitement Yeah Um, and and I do get the sense mich that you're more at peace now than i've ever seen you I Am more at peace now and I have music to thank for that truthfully I think that putting all of my energy into a different outlet that isn't just Like built with that immediate feedback that twitch had Like it just makes me slow down and able to live a better lifestyle if that makes sense Yeah, can you tell me a little bit about how music has helped you? Absolutely Uh when I first started music, I was just kind of dicking around or messing around with uh, you know Some viewers of mine or whatever and then After like a couple songs I was like, you know I kind of want to try and make like a heartfelt song right and then I was like thinking to myself like what? Bothers me the most right now and what bothered me the most What still bothers me the most is the fact that reckless no longer here And I decided to just put all that pain into into a song And uh in the first verse there's like a memory I have with wreckful that uh, this one haunts me like crazy is um A week before he died I was at uh his like condo downtown with like his his roommate merc I was hanging out with his roommate merc and it was like 3 a.m or something Um, but merc was like yeah, like you can just pass out down down. They had like two condos, right? So he's like you could just pass out at the condo Below no one's there. He told me no one was there and I go down there And I walk into the kitchen and I just look over and I just see byron like on the balcony just kind of like Looking off into the sky, you know, and he was just like, you know, just pondering like thinking whatever and I in that moment, I was like I should go, you know, say something or talk to him and I was like too scared to I was like, oh he might not want to see me or like, you know Maybe he doesn't want to talk right now. Maybe he's just you know, having a moment to himself. Whatever So I just I thought you know, I really just turned around and went back upstairs and then a week later He's gone. So like in the first verse of that song, it's like I kind of talk about that that that that story and I don't really go into the same detail that I just told you But it's like I kind of put everything I had into That song when it came to the pain that I was dealing with from that situation and I still live in regret every day Not not being able to say anything to him that day What do you regret about not being able to speak to him that day? My fear and anxiety stopped me from from saying something to him and I'll never get a chance to say anything again I literally saw him a week before he died and I said nothing It haunts me like really badly When you say haunts you how does that affect you? Nightmares, um Just I don't know it's like this like I like whenever I really deeply think about it I just get this overwhelming sense of like grief. I guess it's like uh It's like a like I messed up or something, you know I'm gonna think for a second. Okay, Mitch. Yeah, you're fine I What does your mind tell you would have happened if you did not let your fear and anxiety control you in that moment I think I could have I think I could have had a conversation I think I could have helped Byron because at this time I was on some spiritual journey and whether i'm an idiot or not I'd like to believe that i've learned some things and that I could have maybe you know, just showed him that There's other ways to find happiness, you know, like uh I think he was already on a spiritual journey of his own but I I think that I I don't know like if I had just spoken to him, I I think it would have I think it could have sparked something that may have helped, you know So I think it's fair to say that If you had said something it could have sparked something that could have helped Yeah, I think that's a very accurate assessment And at the same time I I don't know Mitch if you've gotten to this point in your journey, but like You know a big part of my understanding of the journey is that like things Have to happen in a particular time and place That you can regret as much as you want to about the past But at the end of the day, it's the past that makes you the person that you are today Yeah Yeah Um, I know Yeah, I know I'm just saying the person I am today. I still have a lot of work to do I just yeah, it's like I live every like the rest sickness that we talked about last year has gotten worse, but like i've found ways of uh coping, you know internally but truthfully like yeah, I feel alone as fuck man, like I do and uh I'm trying my best to To cope with like You know and it's like on the internet. I almost wasn't allowed to be sad, you know It's like oh you're fucking making this much money or whatever like you're successful like shut the fuck up Like that's kind of what I was like just like this boot up my ass like, you know I'm not allowed it was like it just felt like a very I just couldn't be in that environment You know, so I had to just stop. Yeah, I had to just stop So, you know, uh, mitch i'm a little bit curious, you know what I mean I could send data your way. I don't think that would really help um I've read a lot of data. I know you Like I said, I I don't think it would help. Um You know, it's hard. So, you know, I I deal with suicide a lot as a psychiatrist, I think it's really challenging for people to You know I think just about every person that i've talked to who's a survivor After someone they love or care about commit suicide has thoughts or experiences like yours, right? Like they their mind finds one moment in particular and It'll sort of like think about It'll usually involve personal weakness Yeah, right like where you'll say like if I had been stronger than dot dot dot Yeah And but the thing is the person I am now I feel like I would have made a different decision Yeah, and so this is where if you want to get like, you know off the deep end of spirituality Like what we have to understand is that The person that you are now Was born out of that tragedy was born out of that moment Yeah, what do you think about that? I think It awoke me in a way but It's like I don't know if I was ready to be awoken that way but it happened regardless of what if I was ready or not and Yeah, I think it took it took me on a journey of like I said spiritual like a spiritual journey to where I started Interpeace The whole fucking internet was so so asleep that that's what it took to wake us up Yeah Right when you say you weren't ready, you're right. You weren't ready And yeah, that's why that's why it was necessary I I I That's why it was necessary Right because sometimes it takes a big ass wake-up call And so I think this is where like this may sound kind of weird but like i'm gonna lay a burden at your feet Because if this is the price that was paid to wake you up you better fucking be awake now Which I think you understand I'm definitely awake man, and I am just trying to change the whole thing Like i'm trying to change everything that I used to do and do things in a in a correct way uh, yeah, and that's why I do still struggle a little bit with like the internet stuff because like you know, there's obviously some people that say some pretty fucked up shit to me and it's like, uh, I don't really want to get into it. But uh, yeah, I read some terrible things like Because I don't people just don't seem to do their research or know Like how like I don't know Yeah, that is true Yeah, people people tend to make judgments very easily for sure and and you know, there's a correlation between not doing your research and making judgments, which is that The more research you do I think the harder it is to make a judgment Yeah And so what we end up with is a bunch of people who make judgments without doing any research because that's the only way you can do it Yeah, I just I don't know. I've never been someone that does that too often especially. Yeah, I don't know So to me, it's hard for me to relate to that Like I would never comment on someone else's like shit without like knowing what the fuck happened Yeah I think that that's a healthy way to go through life, but it's hard to do that. Right? It takes a lot of effort It's a lot easier to just judge But for sure for sure and I I don't think that should matter like I think you know if I was as strong if I was as strong as I want to be And I'm capable of being I don't think I would even pay any mind to that but Truthfully, it's like I was raised on the internet and like it just like they're the opinions of people on the internet Obviously, you know, they just it matters to me right just because this is like to me. It's like it's like been my whole life You know, so it's uh, it's hard to look at it from a different point of view But that's what I'm working toward is looking at it from a different point of view Absolutely. Yeah, I mean I think like you said we were all raised on the internet So it's just how we how we function I was absolutely raised on the internet for sure, which is like maybe a bad thing, but definitely was raised on the internet Yeah, so this is also where I'd kind of think a little bit karmically for a second. I'd say it's I don't think it's a bad thing It's it's what? You needed right? So if you think about your struggles and even I venture to say your contributions what I want what i'm seeing in you I don't know if this is actually true or not. But what i'm seeing in you mitch is like You are not alone in your struggle You are not alone in being a child of the internet and actually like even more so today children that are born born today will be more a children of the child of the internet than You were right because things are getting worse. I think you're right. I think they are getting worse So if you think about it, you had a couple of years before as you put it twitch became pr bullshit But now everyone coming up on twitch is existing in this current world Yeah, which this current world I feel like is just filled with manipulation And what can you do for me and all these people that are just running around with their heads cut off trying to like build this false sense of ego and add things to the resume and then they're going to wake up one day and be like Wow, I wasted my whole life chasing a dragon that didn't even make me happy and i'm glad that I realized that at a young age because If I didn't I would still be that fucking idiot person, you know sitting there and doing this like shallow-ass shit trying to make myself Feel like i'm cool Yeah, so hopefully your music will help people get there Yeah, for sure You know, so i'd also be a little bit careful because i'm still detecting some amount of ego and judgment towards them. What do you think? Bitterness or who's them? I don't know But you're talking about you're talking about people Oh, yeah, no, I yeah, you're right for sure no, I definitely have a little bit of like resentment and stuff towards like just like Ignorance in the world. I really like and when I say people it's more so just like the manipulation that is like behind the scenes It's not really like the viewers or any of that It's more of just like the things that i've seen on the back end of just straight Ass nine like some acting that deserves an oscar winning a war type shit, you know I've just seen i've seen everything man and uh It's sad to see just the masses be fooled on a fucking scale. That's like I don't really feel like getting more deep into it. But uh, it's just i've seen it all just trust me. I've seen it all Yeah, I I don't doubt that you've seen it all I'm just a little bit confused and I want to be careful because I don't you know I don't want to push you into starting drama and at the same time It has nothing to do with anyone like no drama none of that shit Like this this honestly stems from like my father and other things like that Like obviously this happens on the you know, it's it's just a lot of things I just feel like I have trouble trusting people because of the experiences i've gone through Okay Yeah, so now we're gonna kind of take a i'm gonna take a slightly different approach mich just toss something out You decide whether it's worth pursuing So I feel like we're talking a little bit more spiritually and the reason I had mentioned your father I'm glad you brought him up again is because if your challenge is to connect with other humans Okay, let's say that like I feel alone I think if we want to try to understand that there's absolutely a spiritual element that we've talked about It's like hey, I put on a mask I become this person that I want to be I hate what I see when I look in the mirror Shedding that mask letting that ego wither away starting your creative process putting something out there that is authentically you Giving people an opportunity to connect with that We walk down that road There's another element here Um, which we can talk more about that. I don't think that's done But there's another element here, which is just very simply from like a psychological standpoint from a social conditioning standpoint If you're telling me that your problem is loneliness and you're telling me that you've been deeply betrayed As long as that emotional energy of betrayal in that the conditioning the adaptations that happened in your mind due to that betrayal exist It's going to be hard to connect to other people bro Oh, yeah, for sure, but I feel like i've done a good job of forgiving those people like that's the first step to me was like Forgiveness of the betrayal, but it doesn't it doesn't like fill the hole that still exists You know, like I have forgiven forgave most, you know Everything that's happened to me and like especially on the internet shit like I could give I could give a shit about that But it's yeah Like there's people in chat saying train for example, but me and train talk daily and are like our good friends So like this is again like the ignorance does bother me a little bit because that guy who typed that didn't do his research And for me that's annoying but like I don't know it's just part of why I quit streaming, you know I don't feel like babysitting all day So but then what do you think? Why do you what's the hole? If you've forgiven what's left what helped me understand that Uh, what do you mean? So you said like like you've you've learned how to authentically forgive which you know, sure I'll if that's what you're saying. I I think I trust you there But i'm curious then like what's the hole that's left? You said the hole that's left repair the hole or doesn't fill the hole. Yeah, I I think the hole that's left is just Like I said, I I want to express myself in a true manner, you know, that's like the hole and obviously once I do that I feel like maybe i'll be able to connect with people easier and not have as many walls put up or whatever Whatever is like stopping me from experiencing like love or Something like similar to that, you know, just like deep connections, I guess So mich at this point I think I'm about to ask you to tell me more or I'm I am I do actually at this point want to know a little bit more about your dad and but let me first explain my reasoning Sure, so what I what i'm hearing is that you feel an emptiness and lack of connection on the inside And what yeah what you fit what you've hypothesized? So you started on this spiritual journey and you're going to create this music and you're going to share it with the world Then you'll hopefully connect with people In my experience That is going to be an important but insufficient step For sure And and so I think that what i'm hearing is that you have walls up but making music may be a part of that process But there's a part of me that just the way you're describing things makes me feel like maybe there's something to be learned or gained from like understanding more of the details because You you you know all the details and based on the details you've come up with a hypothesis If we think about you know, what I try to do and what I try to help people with it's it's not just to sort of fulfill the plan that they've created It's actually to sort of figure out if the way that you've constructed your hypothesis is missing missing something and this is the first time during our conversation where I feel like maybe Something is not adding up for me like with all the spiritual stuff oddly enough with the grief stuff things like that All that stuff like i'm with you 100 percent I think I like I think it makes perfect sense for some reason i'm getting the sense that there's a blind spot something about With what you're talking about now Yeah, for sure. There definitely is a blind spot. I just think it's uh It's a lot to indulge into but I mean shit I can tell you what like what bothers me and I don't know I just It's hard to explain. I just feel as though i'm constricted of what I can say just because I do really feel as though My father is all that I do have and even though our relationship is shit It's like maybe it wouldn't be and if I just air out all of the Shitty things that have happened that i'm just forever closing that portal, I guess Okay. I'm so glad you shared that Because let's think about this. Okay, so Number one our our north star our primary compass is we do not want to have a conversation with you Or do anything that will hurt you in any way shape or form Okay So if if you feel like talking about this stuff and airing this shit out is going to negatively impact your relationship with your father We don't want to do it Well, I don't even think he would ever see this because he's never given a shit about what i've done on the internet So but regardless, yeah, go ahead. So then this is the thing right? so like I think this is what i'm kind of picking up on like You're kind of thinking if you air this shit, it'll close the portal forever I know it sounds kind of weird. It's the this will close the door forever If I do this thing That's not how life works Right. I mean sometimes you can have catastrophic events like death, right where Doors are sort of closed forever but You know, that's the rarity and what i'm wondering is If that fear of closing the door forever is part of what is actually the problem Yeah, it probably is part of the problem I actually do have a lot of fear about that Like i've wanted to speak about the things that that have like really bothered me about that situation But i've sort of kept it to myself. Um And um, yeah, it's it's something that is difficult to think and speak about for sure Yeah, so now we have a choice, okay, so i'm going to toss out one statement. This is going to be inflammatory It may evoke emotions but in the past mitch have you Has your fear controlled what you want to say? Right, so like here we are again Where we want to we want to give you time and space but like i'm going to point it out to you because if your fear Of saying something like we actually don't want to hurt you, right? We don't want you to do anything that's going to like end up bad So we want to be sensitive that we don't want to create drama We don't want to ruin your relationship with your dad, but if he ain't going to watch it then like that fear is all in here Yeah, it is internally. Yeah, it is it is. Yeah, it is internally. I have a It's it's just so fucked up man, like I don't I don't know so once again if If you're not ready to talk about it, that's actually fine. I'm okay with that But I think at the least what we should talk about Is your fear about not like you don't actually have to talk about it The important thing is not whether you share some story or not. The important thing is the fear that's controlling you Yeah, for sure It's not I guess it is fear. Yeah, I guess it is fear. It's more of a thing where it's like Am I the piece of shit if I talk about it, you know, like it's it's like it could be that's the problem raised like I just think of these in this like skewed way because it's like if I talk about things that bother me Then there's always going to be people that are assuming that i'm saying x for y reason, you know, it's like I don't feel like I don't feel like if I make myself vulnerable that it won't be twisted in some way because Most of the times I have made myself vulnerable It has been twisted in some way and and I don't feel safe in that way Yeah All right, Mitch. I need your help Okay Yeah I need you to tell me if i'm bullying the shit out of you No, man, you're you're fine. Wait for it Okay So here's the thing like bro, that's exactly the problem like here you are Not being authentic about the person that you like what you feel on the inside because you're like Oh, what if these people think i'm saying this shit for pr? Like that's exactly what you've spent the last who knows how many months getting away from Is to connect to your authenticity and not give a fuck about how people are going to judge you and you speak your truth Yeah, you're right. It actually is fear holding me back from that. You're right. It's like it's all about this like how You know, it's more it's not just like pr It's more of like how would my like it's like how would my father twist that like let's say my father heard this conversation And I said what bothered me how would he twist that to me? That's more of what i'm talking about, you know Yes, I and why the fuck that started with your dad and now you're doing it with the rest of the internet Yeah, you're right Yeah, you're you're not wrong I'm like literally i'm literally like fucked up from that and I just put that on everyone else. It's like i'm like, oh, yeah But you're right. Yeah, you're right. I just assumed the internet would do the same thing. Yeah, you're right you're right because the because But you you learn how to recognize that pattern And be afraid of it, but it sounds like that started with your dad and like the internet was just you know Not taking you seriously 2.0 But I don't even know because I actually don't know I mean I could be talking completely out of my ass because I still don't know what happened with your dad And that's sort of why I can give you I can give you a little bit of details like i'm just gonna slowly ease into it Rather than just like you know what i'm saying? That's what I mean about bullying you I don't want you to like, you know push you into speaking No, if I unleashed all that I would probably just yeah, my mind would not be good Like it's like I have to I have to deal with this like one phase at a time type. Yeah but a big thing a couple a couple things that Happened was I feel Like I told you about the situation with my brother right where it's like I just feel as though um like I guess I can just tell one story, but please Just like hear me out because this is very personal shit. You know i'm saying um Yeah, well there was one I was like 23 or so and my brother had always he grew up with autism like asperger's And you know, he was always different but um He was a good he was a good smart dude, you know, he used to paint and he had some beautiful paintings man like uh, Yeah, he was very talented dude And uh as he grew up like my mother got really ill and my mother was kind of the main main like caretaker for him and like held his hand through life and shit, you know and um I just remember one time when I was 20 my dad was like my brother was falling apart, you know, he was he was not He was He met Falling my mother was not able to take care of him anymore And uh, were you gonna say something? Yeah, I I think i'm lagging from a server standpoint i'm wondering if this is the universe's way of Like double checking that we want to say what we're about to say I mean I can stop It's up to you, man I think that this this feels important to me. But at the same time Like absolutely like I don't want to pressure you into this you know Yeah, I don't really feel pressured. I just okay The like I already told you the things that i'm fearful of is more so just um yeah, just I think sometimes when you Are honest and have an open heart people like to sort of stab that invulnerability or that sorry that that vulnerability and Yeah, that's the only thing i'm fearful of is that I don't know. I just uh Yeah, so we'll we'll I'd like to help you Feel supported enough to be able to be courageous And to help you be more vulnerable Despite the fact that you've learned probably the hard. I mean undoubtedly the hard way that that's a bad idea So if you're cool with it, i'd love to hear the rest of that story You were talking about your brother and how he made good art Yeah Yeah, my brother hold on all right I Yeah, okay, so the story I don't know where we left off but my brother yeah, he makes good art and uh he There was one time when I was 23 and my my my dad or sorry my brother was not Doing well. He was you know, not taking care of himself because my mother was not able to take care of him the way she used to because of her own illness and Uh, there was like my dad told me I I had I rented This is like when my stream first started doing well So I rented the house next door to my mom's house because I wanted to be close to her And I was with my friend ethan. We lived at this place next door, right? And my dad called me and he's like, hey, I need you to do me a favor and I was like, okay, what is it? And he just said Uh, i've called social services and they're picking up your brother and you need to go there and moderate it and make sure everything goes Okay, and i'm just like what why the hell am I doing that, you know? and He just put that all on me and I remember the fucking cops came and they were just like They were like, uh my My they were like my brother is like not aggressive, but you know how NA cops are man. They're just they're they're like you know guns blazing type shit and it's just like dude like they were scaring the shit out of my brother, man, and I had to just sit there and calm down like hey, please. He's not aggressive. You know, he has autism You're going to scare him Like I had to deal with all of this and like I didn't have any support from my family and I just sat there while my mom Who is struggling with her own health problems has no idea what's going on because she's had multiple strokes and has had brain surgery and brain cancer and she's just sitting there crying doesn't know what the fuck's going on and I had to like moderate all of this while my father just dipped, you know, and it's like I don't know And it just ate me inside man I saw that to this day my brother is just rotting away somewhere with like a A bunch of like crazies man, like there's just no way he's happy and and this shit is way so heavy on my fucking soul, man, like I don't know what to do and I feel like I I have trouble talking about any of this shit and it's like I I may I don't know man. It's It's just hard for me to even think about it like It sucks. I feel like all of the parts of my childhood that I loved are just gone And I don't know what to do Okay so Mitch we're gonna help you with this. All right So I don't think we need to talk more about your past, but that was a really powerful share And I can sort of see so much Can I start talking? Yeah, the first thing is holy shit. No wonder you feel alone I feel so alone man, like I and not only that like I've never shared this shit You know like this shit is like shit that i've been trying my best to just deal with on my own And I just portrayed myself as like this put together gamer or whatever like that was my escape from all of this shit, you know and uh Once you just really dig inside yourself and realize you can't escape you can't no matter how successful you become no matter How far away you run this shit will destroy you man? And it fucks me up every fucking day Okay, Mitch Are you in a space to listen? I am yeah So you're a hundred percent right that no matter how far you run you can't escape and that's because You carry it inside you You know if I have kryptonite if I have kryptonite in my backpack And I go for a jog i'm taking that shit with me, bro Yeah, and if I were to think about speaking of artistry and imagery can you hear me okay I can okay. I know you're hurting i'm gonna talk. Okay Is that okay? Yeah, obviously a lot has become clear for me and I I think that You can't escape from it But you can absolutely deal with it And and that's becoming clear to me so I I know it sounds weird like I know that you're feeling like Shattered and shit and i'm sorry if I you know, because I did that sort of I mean it was there but Mitch I feel hopeful I need to help my brother somehow man. We'll get to your brother in a second Okay, let's focus on you for a second. Can you do that for me bro? Yeah, so if I were to if I were to If I were to make a picture Okay, maybe not. What are you feeling? Sorry, Mitch. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. No, tell me what are you feeling? I don't I don't need to get all ugly right now. Just it's fine man. They just told I'm having trouble. I just need a deep breath. Okay, just give me yeah, let's breathe Like I said, it's like I do I have thought about these things before And it's like but alone, you know, like I I don't talk about this shit and uh, it's just uh, I just yeah I had a plan though with all this shit, you know, like I really did I don't know. I had I had a plan man. It's like I'm just trying to do an ounce of good bro. You know, like I for my for my fucking I've just lost the fucking child Like the person that I once was you know, it's gone like it's just been Fucking shattered man, like Oh, I just I feel like the world is just dampened me and uh, I have a lot to share Yeah Yeah, so I know it sounds weird Mitch, but do you have a sense of why I could be hopeful? When you say things like that No, can you tell me why yeah, it's weird right because the first thing is like because you're not alone in this moment Like you're saying that you don't share this stuff and you just did Right because like the problem here is that you've been carrying this shit all by yourself and like That's like you're not alone That's like you're carrying it with you wherever you go and you're the only one who's carrying it So like right now in this moment what I what I saw you do Is take off your backpack for a second and pass it to me Right and I can hold it for a few seconds before I pass it back which is fine man Like the only way this works is for you to like not be alone anymore Right and and this is the this is the challenge is like when I think about I'm going to just keep talking, okay Whatever you're feeling you got to tell me if I should stop Feeling like a dick for keeping talking, but I'm going to keep going so here's what I'm here's what I'm seeing Mitch If you were to ask me I'll look paint a portrait of loneliness Paint a portrait of loneliness what I would have done before this conversation You listening Yeah, i'm gonna keep going. Okay, you tell me when to stop do I need to stop? No, you're good. Okay, i'm gonna keep going. Okay Yeah, if you were to tell me to paint a portrait of loneliness, I would have painted a person by themselves in an empty room And what I'm realizing now what that painting involves is is if I had taken a snapshot Of you being on the phone being 23 years old walking into a room that has cops your autistic brother And your mom with cancer and strokes That is the portrait of loneliness In a nutshell Yeah And so yeah, it feels overwhelming to share it But i'm gonna ask you a question Mitch do you feel alone right now? No, no, I don't I just feel very vulnerable Yep Because this is this is it right like it's really hard to like bury your chest because you don't know if the knife is coming Yeah Mitch bro, this is a part of your journey and I know you feel vulnerable and we're gonna sit with you. Okay? Yeah Yeah, we're just gonna sit you don't need to do anything you don't need to say anything I can talk if you want to I can listen if you want to How how can I How can I heal this like like Even just opening this small little window has made me just feel uncontrollably sad and I have that image in my mind Yeah the image in my mind and um I just remember how much my my brother and my mother loved me, you know, I was Just like a year to a year or two ago I just went my brother had this I can't even fucking talk man. He had this like chest full of like everything he had collected And He had like a he had these gameboy files it was a gameboy blue Game boy red and one of the files was he like named the file after me and I opened up the file. I just like logged into the game. He completed everything 100 percent He just he just misses me, you know And I just feel like I was just running away because I can't face this shit I can't face this shit Okay, Mitch i'm gonna say something weird to you that you're probably gonna push back against I'll ask you a question Is it okay to not be able to face it? No, it's not okay because There's no one else that will you know, there's no one else that will so if I if I don't I'm gonna have to die with this pain You are I know this is gonna sound fucking weird Mitch, but I want you to listen Okay, I want you to use whatever ounce of energy you have to listen to my words. Can you do that right now? Probably not maybe not Yeah, if you give me like one second man, yep, I can listen just give me one second, yeah Yeah You want to take a break for a bit go wash your face something like that compose yourself I'm sorry if i'm keeping you up. I don't know. I don't know how this you know, I don't know man Well looks like we opened pandora's box so we're gonna put it in order. Okay, we're here bro. There's no rush God man, it's like everything that I ran from Like, you know, I ran from this I met the streaming people that I met And now I can't even talk to them man like This world it's just so weird and like I swear it's just like I don't know man. I don't know All right, yeah, i'm gonna take a second, okay, yeah take a second all right Ah All right, so I guess if people are watching I forgot for a second that this is being streamed All right, so let's take this opportunity all of us to take a second, okay, so feelings can be powerful they can control us Um and that's okay And that you know learning how to tolerate feelings sit with feelings letting them out is Absolutely like an important part of this process if we want to heal All right, i've collected myself a bit I apologize What are you apologizing for I don't know. I just need to keep myself put together. You know, I just apologize for I don't know just everything. I don't think you did anything wrong I'm worried I did Yep, I understand that you're worried and I understand that your instinct is to apologize And I think what happened is I let's be honest. I pushed you a little bit. I felt like there was something important there and you You have a pandora's box And I have I have a soul that bleeds so hard Yep, and everyone just views me as this person that I created and I hate that person it's like I live like a double life and I my life is Fucking weird, man Yeah, so mich like this is why I have hope for you because in this moment you are no longer living a double life There is no longer the dude on the inside and the dude on the outside And you ask how can you heal from this? Well, you opened a window in this it smells like shit in there And so the the smell that comes out is so overwhelming. There's so much emotional pain. There's so much negativity But the whole reason that it's in there is because you never open up the window You've just made a huge step forward and when it comes to your brother you're right that if you are not there for him You will die with this pain Mitch how old are you? I'm turning 29 in two days and how long are you gonna be alive? I don't know So let's say that like if I carry this pain And the stress i've learned enough about health that that shit will probably end up giving me some sort of illness that I don't want so Yep So let's say that average average life expectancy in the u.s. Is 72 Or so so you've got about 43 years left. If you have chronic illness you knock off 10 off of that So you've got 33 years left So this is where I want I know it's gonna be hard because you feel guilty for abandoning your brother Okay, but I think this is where like Do you need to be there for them? I for him i'm gonna say yeah And if you say because no one else will I will say yes, Mitch you are correct That is your dharma. That is your duty and You don't need to do it right this second Yeah Yeah Right, you honestly had a hard time. I had a hard time every time I would call him I've called I called him I visited actually, uh like a couple years ago uh on like christmas and Wherever they have them They have them on a lot of drugs. I think that's just part of how the system works here where it's like We deem you unfit for society so we put you on drugs, but that's the last thing he needed they have they have uh Just dampened my brother to a point where he's just complacent and there's no He's not like I he needs help Okay so I I understand that I may have a slightly different perspective But that's neither here nor there, but I think like in my mind your road is pretty clear and you're walking it Right. So this started with you streaming at the age of 20 becoming successful developing an ego getting involved in drama Starting to die on the inside Yeah running away from the true pain. Yeah. Yep And then you started waking up And you lost byron and that was hard for you and it was hard for me and it was hard for everyone I was so hard for me, man Yep Dude, he was like the one I talked to him about this shit He knew he knew all this I talked to him we had so many heart to hearts about shit yeah, and byron was someone that had been in this streaming world so long too that we were both so fucking over it man and Oh man, I just wish I could talk to him one more time Well, I mean I know it sounds kind of weird but mitch you can talk to him Right like you may not be able to hear his words, but you can still talk to him I do I literally fucking send I fucking am crazy bro Like I literally dm his twitter every now and then like he's there. I'm sick. Yo, man I Don't know there's very few people that you meet in this world that will listen to you and he listened to me, you know So mitch I know this is gonna sound kind of weird I think that that has been your experience so far But what i'm seeing right now makes me hopeful that there are a lot of people in this world That if you give them the chance they will listen and maybe this is a consequence of streaming and shit because like you said You know, there's always an ulterior motive. So people who are like streaming like this is a challenge that we see is like You're in the business of friendship Right. Yeah exactly, it's it's all like half of it is like A sham in my eyes half of it It's just like I want to be friends with x person because x person can do this for me and like it's so empty dude, it is empty as Fuck and like I don't understand why people want to be that Why do you want to be like if why do you want to feel like me in the end? Nobody, you know what I mean? Like so mitch let that go As best as you can Okay And recognize that when you make your music You are taking one step closer to connecting when you share this today and you open the pandora's box and all the emotion comes rushing out And it feels overwhelming You are taking one step closer to being like authentic and like letting that healing process begin. This is what healing looks like You know surgery ain't pretty It's not like wow where you see these beautiful green pluses and a bar fills up No, sir. I know I like I said, let's go ahead. I'm sorry for cutting I was gonna say like healing is more like blood magic Like in reality, right? It's like you pay the price To fuel that healing Yeah, and like I paid the price like I've done it I've done some work to deal with this but as soon as I go A little deep even like alone like this this comes out in me and like this is where I was at when I was making music You know, it was like This would come out and I would just be sitting there like writing and like just putting it into like words I guess and like to me that was sort of therapeutic, but it doesn't fix the problem, you know Yeah, so I think you've done a lot on your own but bro This is where like you're right like I don't know that it's the I mean, I'm sure you can because you're still young I mean you've got you made a lot of good breakthroughs and you'll keep making breakthroughs But this is where I'd say bro. Don't walk this journey alone. This is not a journey. You need to walk alone. I understand why you feel alone I Understand that there have been people in your life who should have been very close to you and like that has like Your dad kind of dumped that shit on you and then you know There have been people who have you haven't been able to connect to But this is where you need to party up. This is not a single-player game anymore making music. Sure I Feel like making music is more of a way It's more of a deeper way of doing my job if that makes sense You know, like I just feel like as a streamer I couldn't I had to just I had to you know I had to you know Like nobody wants to watch this shit You know what I mean? Like people want to watch a happy person playing a game but like with music like people can relate and there's a message and a story And it's like it's it's it's it's authentic, you know, and that's why I felt like Yeah Yeah, Mitch your music has the pain has purpose when it comes to your music and so I can totally respect that but You know, that's like that's one part of your journey that I think is awesome that you've been watching but there's like this is the blind spot that I'm talking about like This shit needs to be dealt with directly Right, like you need to share these stories and let them out of your soul when you say your soul bleeds on the inside Yeah, that's because it's like stuck full of knives and like you're not pulling them out Because when you pull that knife out the blood starts burning more Yeah, and then when the blood spurts more i'm in fear of how you know people will like I don't want to be attacked When i'm opening myself up on the most vulnerable level because I have I have been attacked before you know on a wide scale and like I know Like that pain as well, you know the pain of being widely hated by the internet I am that was my reality for like two years and it like it was like it was it was mainly hurting my ego Which I learned to get away from that and not really give a shit about that side of things as much as more which i'm glad I made that development as well But like i'm in fear that if I pull the knives out on a scale where it's not just me alone in a room by myself That i'll just bleed out until i'm dead, you know, yes like it's so so bro. Listen like very simply right you've got 32 years Left and so what I want you to do very i'm dying at six Yeah, if you this this shit keeps going right and I'd give yourself like two or three years Like honestly, I'd give yourself two or three years to put yourself in a in a good head space Before you help your brother, but should you help him? Yes Absolutely. Are you the only one who can probably Yeah, and so like I I get that he's kind of medicated out and stuff like that. But that too. I mean they're I know it sounds kind of weird. You just got to trust me on this one as a psychiatrist. Sometimes there are people I see their family I see family members who Come and see like they're chronically mentally ill Family and they're devastated by what they see but honestly like There are some places that are pretty good where people are actually happy there. I know it sounds crazy Yeah, I know it sounds absolutely crazy I know it sounds crazy Yeah, I know it sounds absolutely crazy But like there is happiness to be found in a mental hospital and way too many people fall in love That's a whole different problem. But anyway, I just when I visited there It didn't seem like an environment where he could thrive to the fullest. That's all so so I can't comment on that facility But you know, I I know it sounds shocking and it can be emotionally painful to accept but like Having worked in some of those facilities I I know if that I had family members who were like that like I would actually be willing to send them there because I know That life on the outside can actually be harder Right. So anyway, this is i'm getting off into kind of coming back to you My point to you is that you know, I would to a certain degree trust what your mind is telling you but also recognize that like you know if you're That for now this may not be quite as bad for your brother is emotionally You think it is because your feelings of abandonment are going to amplify the situation that you see him in does that make sense? Yeah, so i'm not saying you shouldn't get him out of there I'm not saying you shouldn't do more for him by all means do both of those things but cut yourself a little bit of slack Right because you were thrust into this situation at the age of 23 and the responsibility for your brother While it's unfortunate that all of it falls onto you. You can't be expected To bear it right away Yeah So be patient with yourself. It's not only that my my mother as well. My it's not just my brother. It's my mother as well I will say this to you in the strongest possible way So when you say it's hard to be vulnerable because you've been punished So what you need more than anything else, Mitch is a regular person. I would highly recommend therapy where you can go in on a weekly basis And share this shit open one tiny window at a time Yeah, i've never actually given therapy, uh 100 of a try I have spoken to people but It was just it just didn't get anywhere Yeah, so I think that you probably The spiritual fortitude that you've developed over the last year will hopefully help you Handle therapy like a little bit better and get more out of it Maybe you just weren't ready yet, but I think now that you've done all of this personal work It's time to start cleaning out the cellar And you're right that if you pull everything out of your soul all at once alone There's going to be too much bleeding out that happens That's exactly what happened to me when I went into this I went into this alone and was trying to just deal with the pain through just like body like manipulation I guess you know and it worked like I was bleeding but Holy shit. I was bleeding so hard that I didn't even want to continue, you know, and it's like that was very like some of the Moments that I hit in in those times when I truly opened up even alone Were almost were too much, you know, and I can't even imagine if I was that person with You know telling to somebody else, you know, it just feels like you're even it's it's weird, you know I don't know. I had a couple eye-opening moments though when I was trying to deal with this on my own So mich you are I think an amazing example an amazing example of the benefits and Shortcomings of spirituality when it comes to dealing with something incredibly traumatic Because there's no doubt in my mind that you've come a very long way on your own It's amazing like even that one story is like absolutely heartbreaking and soul-shattering There's man, there's so many more. Yep. So we're not going to go there Okay So now i'm going to set a limit if I can because I think we don't we want to like we want to do this sort of like You know, like, yeah Yeah, right. So I think that's healthy anything more than that. I think would feel a little bit too much Yeah, and I appreciate you for real I feel I feel like after i've calmed down I feel a little like a little like I don't feel as heavy. I guess I feel a little bit like better I still feel like I have a lot to do and there's you know, but I do feel a bit better. Thank you Yeah, you're welcome bro. You're right. You have a shit ton to do But this is how we have we have to teach you you have to learn how to do it in a safe way, right? Like you don't go jumping into the pacific ocean. It's like let's step into the kiddie pool Let's try swimming four feet Let's yeah, you know kiddie pool sounds good Yeah And and and I think bro like it's amazing like you've done awesome stuff with diet and it sounds like you're you know, making music And it's like very authentic and I think it's really unfortunate But you know, the most beautiful art is created by the most painful life And that's why as a society we love art Right because it speaks to us on a level that like You know an artist that painted a painting 700 years ago can talk to you today you can feel connected with them So like I don't know this is gonna this is gonna sound kind of random I'm gonna say this to kind of lighten the mood, you know that song in the air tonight by phil collins I do the one that was it was in tarzan. I think no, I don't know what movies is that But it's one of these songs where like I don't know what the fuck he's talking about Because the lyrics are so damn vague. He just says I can feel it coming in the air tonight. That's all he says Yeah, and I have no idea idea what he's talking about, but I understand him 100 Yeah, that's why music is special I feel like even if you haven't gone to the depths of pain that the person is speaking of there's a human consciousness that can sort Of connect with it. Absolutely So like you walk that spiritual journey you create your music have it be part of your growth have it be part of your therapy Yeah, and also Work with someone else don't bear this shit along Right, but you see why the music helps me though. It's like if I can't share this in a way through words It's like I'm looking for deep connections, right? So if if I can deeply connect with somebody out there through music then i've done That's what i'm looking for love whatever you want to call it, you know some sort of thing that isn't just on the surface like I really strive to For that Can you tell me a little bit about? your music Yeah, what what about it just tell me about it Wow, and what in specific what do you mean? So I understand what you're striving to do. What have you met like what are you conveying through your music? My story, you know the my My my little album that's coming out on my birthday and three two days is like It's it just tells a story, you know, and uh So yeah, i'm trying to just convey my story in in little windows. Like you said um and be able to relate on A level where I feel like I can connect with people because I felt like as a streamer I was having difficulty connecting with people Awesome man Yeah Mitch you really come a long way, dude Thank you bro I appreciate you saying that for real. It means a lot to me. Thank you I'm gonna do my best not to get emotional, but i'm gonna toss this last one out I feel really it's it's heartbreaking to me that you've had to come so far on your own And if I if I had if I could change one if I had a magic one that could change one thing in your life I wouldn't try to take away your journey Because I think it's important and healthy to walk the journeys that we walk even if they're painful The only thing that I wish is that you didn't have to walk it alone Yeah I appreciate you for saying that even after just talking to you. I don't feel as alone as I did, you know, I feel like You were able to listen to me and um, thank you for that Uh, this was very scary for me and I still am worried, you know, but it's all good. I feel like uh That's part of you know me just accepting things for what they are Yeah, man, I I think it makes sense to me that this felt good and it's scary Because I think learning how to trust is going to be a slow process The saddest thing about it's very hard for me very very very very hard for me The saddest thing about trust is that it can take a lifetime to build in a moment to shatter Yeah, for sure. And that's another thing with uh, yeah, the music is like uh on friday at like I scheduled for like 3 pm I'm doing like a live or like a performance or whatever and i'm like i'm really anxious that that you know But I feel like that's gonna help me just like be in that moment like those like full state moments where you can really just be Yourself like those are the kind of moments I like live for you know, and uh, I'm Just looking forward to trying something different whether people shit on me or not. I'm just going to keep Pushing my head face strong into the fucking brick wall until it collapses, you know, like i'm just i'm just going to keep going man Yeah, man Yeah, mad respect. I I think Here's what i'd say to you mich Like you kind of said whether people like it or don't like it it's not about what people like or don't like it's about What you have to offer? Yeah, so if you're doing a live stream some you know what i'd say to you is like you may be worried Oh, what if I screw up or whatever like it's not about screwing up or doing a good job It's about giving us Whatever you have to offer Yeah, i'm just very nervous. I you know, I haven't streamed i haven't streamed in six months and i'm doing something completely different And it's just It just you know, it's just a little nerve-wracking. It's all Yeah, I can imagine man I do not I do not envy you Yeah, for sure. I don't think anyone does Oh, man, sounds rough bro, not gonna lie But man, I can I can feel the weight of your scrotum growing from here Yeah, let's hope uh Yeah, let's hope it goes It'll go well. I gotta think positively, you know, yeah, it's like My message is real My my feelings my heart my soul is in this shit, you know So and that's another terrifying thing, you know When you when you when you share a piece of your soul criticism hurts even more than if you're just creating a persona, right? Like when people would attack mitch jones I didn't really give a shit, you know to me mitch jones was just A fucking 19 year old version of myself that I just brought out every day But when you when you when you really dig deep and share the deepest parts of your soul and then people are like Shitting on that that is painful, but it's something that i've i'm used to and i'm i'm equipped for you know, so yeah Awesome, man So do you want to give us a couple details about so are you gonna be streaming on twitch or what? Like where can we find you where where can we find your album? Yeah, well on spotify It's coming out on the 23rd and then on the 20th on the 23rd like on my birthday i'm doing like a birthday celebration and like So at 3 pm on the my main twitch channel, i'll just be doing like uh, i'll be doing like a show You know, it's like i'm showing a music video that canstera made, you know canstera, right? He made like have you never heard like it's your boy asmongold. It's your boy asmongold never heard that Okay, you're unplugged from the memes but yeah He makes all the twitch like videos and I made the song and he made the video and it's a beautiful heartfelt video and uh, it's like the the song is called time machine and it kind of just talks about Uh a lot of the stuff that you know, not not as deep as we talked about today But it just talks about the things that have been like weighing heavy on my conscious, you know And that's like the lead of the of the album and then the rest of it is just A story of like, you know meeting a girl and then having good times And then back to anxiety and you know living with anxiety for like one of the songs is called no in between and the hook goes like My you know, it's like my anxiety gets the best of me. I'm up and down with no in between like that's just like That's just me, you know, it's just like a whole it's a whole story. You know what i'm saying? And uh, Yeah, so i'm gonna be i'm gonna be like performing all these songs on at 3 pm on my channel and I'm hoping that it goes well. Yeah Yeah, man i'm yeah I know there's been a lot of pain today mich, but i'm i'm it makes me happy to see the person that you're becoming Thank you. Thank you very much. It's 3 pm ct by the way, so central time Cool, you should check it out. It would be cool to have you just be like, yo like that'd mean a lot to me Sure, i'll do my best. I I think I may even uh, depending on when you start we may we may try to raid you but Yeah, it's a well I'm doing like a 24 hour countdown thingy, right? So it's like it starts at on the 22nd At 3 pm ct and then the show will start when the 24 timer 24 hour timer ends on friday At 3 pm ct, so if you're not busy then it'd be dope to just be like yo, what up, dr. K, you know Yeah, absolutely, man. I'll do my best to make it Thank you. I appreciate that and I feel like you've done a lot of good for the community, you know Yeah, I just I don't know you're supporting me a lot to me just because I feel like a lot of the things i'm singing about are just like my mental struggles and Yeah, it's like I feel like you've helped me with my mental struggles. So yeah Yeah, I i i i'd love to hear it. I know that actually, um, my wife likes your music Oh, yeah That's so I I you know, it was kind of weird. I you know, I know we've communicated a little bit Prior to the stream, but I I actually haven't listened to it I found emotionally for some reason it was hard for me and i'm i'm beginning to think maybe that was karmic in some way Oh, it is loaded emotionally. Yeah for sure. Yeah, I just I couldn't bring myself to To listen to it for some reason But I think maybe that was the universe's way of Telling me to you know, wait until it was time and it seems like it's time in a couple of days Yeah, no, it would mean the world to me if you know you were there. So thank you. Sure Okay. Well, I I think we sort of stumbled on the end Yeah, we definitely did I mean like my brain is spinning right now man, I yeah Yeah Mitch take care of yourself. Take it easy. Okay Okay, thank you. We'll try to catch you on friday, bro Hey, thank you very much. I appreciate the combo. Yeah, thank you, man. Bye later All right chat sometimes life ain't easy, huh?