 Yeah. Okay. Can you explain how people came up with meditation techniques? They seem to be very specific and come from certain people, but how did those people figure it out? Amazing question. Okay. So how did people discover meditation? So... Oh man, okay. So supposedly, meditation techniques revealed knowledge. So like someone was doing something and they sort of claimed that they were shown or that this knowledge was revealed to them. And I think what's happened since then is that like once you understand meditation, it's kind of like, like once you understand the principles of the body, the mind, the soul, whatever, whether you believe in it or not, whatever, you know, you start to understand like how things work and then people started to realize like, okay, there's a certain practice for a certain kind of mind. So there are some principles about the mind. For example, you know, the way to calm a mind is not by like holding it in place, oddly enough, but is to let it run out of energy. So if you have like an ADHD mind, you can do a particular kind of technique that sort of slows it down. So like once you understand the principles of the mind, like you understand how the mind works, then you can come up with a meditation technique to guide whatever you want. So I think about it this way. Like if you guys play Dota or StarCraft or whatever, like there are builds, right? Like you have video games where someone has a build order or like you have a certain like set of like talents or item build or whatever. You have like an item progression. And so how did someone come up with like a build order in StarCraft 2? Like they understood the fundamental like components of the game that's being played. And then they sort of figured out, okay, if I want to get from A to Z, like, and this is this is what I can work with. How can I get to Z? How can I get to D? How can I get to G? How can I get to H? So it's kind of that way. They started by first like understanding like the core of of like how human beings work. And they develop techniques to sort of function on these different levels. So I'll give you guys kind of a couple of other sort of weird esoteric answers to that. So people say that Shiva, so Shiva is one of the three Hindu trinity. So Hindu is another bunch of gods. But one of the three main gods is this guy named Shiva. And Shiva, people say that Shiva is basically the first yogi. So Shiva is the person or god who gave human beings meditation in the science of yoga. So if you look at Shiva like he's like he's not you look at like pictures of Hindu gods, like they're going to be doing all kinds of stuff like laying down and like random stuff. Shiva is like usually meditating. That's what he's doing. And so so who Shiva was, I'm not sure. I mean, my sense is that historically there was probably like one teacher, or maybe like the concept of one teacher got kind of like immemorialized or anthropomorphized as like Shiva. And he's like the original yogi. Some people claim to have been like taught by Shiva directly. Like they're wandering in the Himalayas and they're like going to a cave and there's a guy there who's just like sitting there. And that that person will teach them meditation and they think that that's Shiva. Because there's like there are stories about that. I mean, I don't know what to believe there. But so Shiva apparently is the first teacher of meditation. In a more, let me just think for a second if there are other ways to answer that question. Yeah, I guess that's a good answer. So that's sort of like what what the meditative traditions say. Oh, so I guess this is another chance to talk about something. So like for example, one way that like mantras are developed is there's this idea that when people meditate they sort of heard this basic universal hum which is om. So like om is sort of the primordial oscillation of the universe. And then if they looked at different sort of versions of om and they came up with these 12 things called bija mantras, which are like seeds. And then if you combine each of those bija mantras has a particular kind of energy. And when you combine those energies in different combinations you sort of get like a dish, right? So it's sort of like if I combine different ingredients like I get a dish. And so those are mantras. So when people like chant like mantras as a form of meditation, those are combinations of these different ingredients. But at the end of the day, someone understood the ingredients. I don't know who that is or how they discovered or what. But when you do meditation, you'll see what I'm talking about. Because when you meditate, for example, actually we can, yes, I'm just relating like this is like the theory from the tradition that I learned. I'm not saying it's true or not true. But yeah, we're going to do meditation questions today. We're going to do all meditation. So I'll give you guys just one example of how someone discovered two of the bija mantras. So I want you guys to close your eyes and listen to the sound of your breath. So if you listen to the sound of the breath, and you like what do you so like the first thing is that there are two different sounds, right? That the sound of inhalation is different from the sound of exhalation. And then if you're brushing your teeth, listen to the sound of brushing your teeth and see if there are two sounds there as well. And then someone in chat points out it literally the sound of the breath is the same as the sound of the ocean. So now go and listen to the sound of the ocean. And like go listen and see if that's the same sound. Okay, next time you're at the ocean, listen, close your eyes, listen to your breath and listen to the sound of the ocean. And so they just like pretend you're a primitive human. Right. And then you're like, well, that's kind of weird. Like pretend you're like alive 5000 years ago and you're like, it sounds the same. Does that mean that there's some kind of connection between my breath and the ocean? And so what the way that they discovered the beach mantras is they listen to all of the sounds. This is my theory. They listen to all of the sounds. And they sort of figured out that there are like 12 of them that represent all of the phenomenon. And so those are the beach mantras. And then they listened to those 12 sounds and they found one sound that's sort of like underneath all of them. And that's, oh, now I don't know what to make it out. Like, I don't think like as a scientist, I don't know. I mean, these are just, these are the, the teachings of the traditions that I studied. I think at the end of the day, I tend to gravitate towards like science and like the first half of the stream was like lecture, right? So that's what I believe in. I believe in like studying the quality of mind, seeing the way the mind works, looking at it for yourself and trying to understand it, like analyzing the nature of mind, all of this other stuff, like I can give you guys answers, although it's like, it's a different kind of tradition, right? Because this is all like, do you, do you have faith in it or not? Which is not what I'm about. But what I try to do is like explore this stuff for myself and see what I can figure out. So I do think it's kind of cool, for example, that the sound of the breath, if you listen in the world, you'll hear it in a lot of different places. I don't know what, like, I don't know what to make it at. Like, I don't know if it's just, you know, the nature of our ears are like restricted with the wavelengths that they can hear. And so we're going to hear common sounds like in the same way that our eyes, like, it's kind of like saying like, oh, if I go out into the world, I can like see the same colors everywhere I go. Like there's seven colors that I see. It's all like seven colors, man. Like, it's like everything is connected, man. Seven colors. And it's like, yeah, duh. It's just because our eyes have a limited visual spectrum and we can't see infrared. And so that's just how our eyes perceive color. So like, maybe the same is true of sound, right? Like, let's be scientific about it. So like this stuff is like, the spiritual stuff I think is like cool and interesting because I like fantasy games. It's sort of like fantasy games. Like, it's like FF, like Naruto and chakras and all that kind of stuff. Like, I think that stuff is cool. But let's be scientific about it. Right? So I'm just going to answer questions because that's what we're doing today. That's question number one. So it took me like 12 minutes to answer one question. We've got 60. So, okay. So Dr. K mentioned a form of meditation called yoga nidra to which he adds a positive reinforcement at the end. I was wondering how to do that. Also, is there another meditation for losing ego other than the laser beam one? It doesn't give me any sensations anymore. Okay. Good. Excellent. Okay. So the first question is, if you're chasing medit- if you're chasing experiences. So on stream, we did this meditation called charging the laser beam. And charging laser beam, like everyone loved because they did it and they're like, whoa, it's like, I have a laser beam that's like charging up in my forehead. Right? And then what happens is you run into the first problem of meditation, which is that you create an expectation. So as you look for the laser beam, your mind is no longer focused on your forehead. Your mind is focused on looking for the laser beam. And so like, then you don't find the laser beam because in order to find the laser beam, you have to be focusing fully on the forehead. So it's like the most common problem in meditation is that if you chase an experience in meditation, you won't be able to find that experience again. Most common problem. So people will meditate and before they understand what the F they're doing, they have some kind of really cool experience. And the next time they meditate, they want that again. They're like, okay, like we're going to do this this time, but expectation just ruins it. Expectation makes it difficult for you to focus the mind because your mind is hanging onto that expectation. So you can't focus on the practice. Your mind becomes weak. It becomes dissipated. You're no longer concentrated, therefore no more experience. So let go of the expectation. Focus on the forehead. Just focus on the forehead. Focus on the forehead. The more you focus on the forehead, the better your meditation will be. And newsflash folks, charging the laser beam is just the first sensation in that practice. You do that practice for 15 years, all kinds of cool stuff is going to happen. Stuff that I can't even describe because no one is even understand what the F I'm saying. Like if I told you guys on stream, for those of you guys have charged the laser beam, you know what I'm talking about. But for those of you guys who are relatively new, you're like, what on earth does it mean to charge the laser beam in your forehead? Like just think about that for a second. No one is going to understand what that means. So I can't even tell you what happens because it's like literally not going to make any sense. So just charge the laser beam. Just focus on the practice and stuff will happen. Don't try to chase the sensation of the laser beam. Okay. All right. So we can also do yoga nidra at the end. Hey, can you give me any advice? How can I find my mantra to do mantra meditation? Mantras need to be given by like someone who has a certain amount of spiritual experience. Like you just don't find your, oh, I mean, I guess you can find your mantra, but I was given my mantra by a teacher and I've been doing that mantra for 16 years and it has helped me focus a lot. It's a very good one. And then like I've sometimes given mantras to people, which is not something that like I can do on a regular basis because it all depends on the state of my mind. So I like, there's one person, for example, I tried to like find a mantra for them for like one year and I just couldn't because my mind was just not cooperating. Other people, I feel like I figured out. So mantras are generally like given by a teacher. So you don't find it. So sorry, you don't just find it. So you have to find a teacher. So what would you recommend for breathing techniques for someone that has a deviated septum? Really interested in what you were discussing with Rackful today regarding the notice on change in nostril openings. So if you have a deviated septum, you shouldn't do anything that requires you to breathe out of one nostril. But there are a lot of meditation techniques that have nothing to do with your nose or breathing. So Kaish theorem is a great example. Like, so you can do any meditation technique that doesn't have to do with breathing. You can also do meditation techniques that have to do with breathing, just not a nostril preferential technique. So one technique that I teach, for example, is like Kapalpati, which is forceful exhalation. So it's kind of going like this. Like that. So you can do forceful exhalations like that doesn't deviated septums don't matter. So let's do Kapalpati together. Sit up straight. Okay. I need water, man. It's getting hot. I was cold. Now I'm hot. Hold on. Okay. Okay. Okay. Back straight, boys. Wait, do you have you have I taught you guys how to sit up straight? Have we talked about this? Okay, I'm gonna teach you guys how to sit up straight. It's easy. Easy peasy lemon squeezy. I promise you easy. One of the most broken things that I ever learned or discovered. I don't know if anyone taught me this or I just sort of figured it out. But easy trick to sitting up straight. Okay, let's just do it now. Yeah, absolutely. There's a proper way I'm going to show you guys. Okay. I'm going to have to do this. I need to know whether y'all can hear me. Okay. Okay. So this okay, you guys can see me, right? All right. Yeah, take it all off. So I'm going to teach you guys a trick how to sit up straight. Okay. So if you guys can grab a pillow, grab a pillow. So if you can sit cross legged, I want you to sit cross legged. And then notice what happens. Like what does your body feel like doing? You guys sit like this. I can't read Twitter chat. So okay, I'm gonna have to just like talk to him. So like if you guys see like when I sit cross legged, like what do I feel like doing? Slouching, right? And so it's going to be hard to see, but let me try this chair. So if I sit in this chair, like what do I feel like doing? Slouching, right? Just slouch. Like that's normally how we sit. Okay. Now Okay. So what I want you guys to do is feel, so feel the slouch and then I want you to stand up and notice what happens to your back when you stand. Right? So you straighten up. So now what I want you guys to do is sit like this. Actually, so if you have a chair, I want you to move to the edge of the chair and then cross your legs in front. How can I do this? Okay. So I want you to sit at the edge. So like if you sit back, you're going to slouch. Hold on, okay. Nipple spotted. Okay. So if you sit, like you're going to slouch, right? So I want you to sit at the edge and then put your feet down a little bit. Okay. So what I want you to do is just kind of sit at the edge, So I want you to sit at the edge and then put your feet out in front of you. And then what happens to your back if you sit forward with your feet straight in front of you? And then move back and slouch and sit forward. And what happens? Your back straightens, right? So now what we're going to do, let me show you guys this business. Okay, cross-legged. And then we go into half lotus. What do you guys notice about my back? So here's cross-legged. Okay, here's half lotus. What happens to my back? You don't have to do half lotus, just watch me. Okay, and then full lotus. What happens? Right, so you guys see this? So this is full lotus. You don't have to do full lotus. I'll teach you guys how to do this without full lotus. Okay, so what's happening? So if you want to sit cross-legged and then sit on a pillow, and then notice what happens to your back. If you sit on a pillow and then do half lotus, that works great. Easy. Now I'm going to show you guys. Okay, so slouched, right? Take the pillow. Okay, sit on the pillow. What happens to my back? Half lotus. Easy. So this is very important to understand. Anytime, so if we look at the progression of no lotus. So look at my knees. My knees are up here, my hips are down here, right? So left hand is above my right hand. Higher, lower. As I go into half lotus, what happens? They're about the same. They're about the same. And as I go into full lotus, this is lower than this hand. So all you need to do to sit up straight is to have your knees. So here's hip, here's knee. Vajrasan, thunderbolt pose. Right, so when our knees are lower than our hips, our back will be straight. So let me show you guys the last one. So when I'm sitting in a chair, hips are back here, knee is up here. As I sit forward, knees go down, hips stay here. That simple. When I stand, knees are down here, hips are up here. It's easy to sit up, stand up straight, right? So if you want your back to be straight, all you need to do is have your knees lower than your hips. That's it. So if you're sitting, I know. And so this is important, right? It's physics. It's not math. It's physics. So if you guys see, if you sit on a, so if you're in a chair, sit on a cushion and elevate your butt, and then it's easy. Sitting up straight is not about posture. It's about physics. It's about physics. And if the weight of your body is distributed through your spine and into the ground, it'll be easy. You won't use any muscles. If your center of gravity is not along your spine, then you'll use muscles to prop yourself up and keep yourself from falling over. And then you'll get tightness over here and your posture is all messed up. That's it. Easy peasy. Okay? All right. Oh, this is great. I don't have to wear headphones because I'm not talking to anyone. Okay. I can't tell if the person who's asking me to demonstrate again is trolling me because that's annoying. Okay. Okay. You guys got that? So just keep your knees below your hips and like, just try it. Okay? Just try it at home. So if you're in a chair, like put two pillows or three pillows under your butt, but not under your legs, and see what happens to your back when you put three, when you sit on three pillows. Take like two pillows and stick them on a chair and then sit in the chair and watch what happens to your back. Okay? All right. Armchairs. Yeah. Armchairs are comfortable to sit in, but terrible for posture. Sitting on a stool is good. Depends. Are your hips going to be lower than your knees when you sit on the stool? Okay. All right. So I'm getting a thousand questions, but we've done like three out of 60. So we're going to go back. Okay? We're going to answer like one or two more. Okay. Okay. So actually this is another meditation technique. Just sit in different like degrees of ratios of hips to knees and pay attention to yourself and just see what your body feels like. Like that is actually amazing meditation. Like just sit and feel. Okay. So use one pillow, use two pillows, use three pillows and just feel your body stand up, sit on the edge of stairs. So like if you take a staircase, the second step from the bottom or the third step from the bottom, sit there and let your feet be down the stairs and see how your body feels. Got it? So she, so go ahead and just do that. Like do that on your own time. Easy peasy. Okay. Can you just clip your meditation portions of videos and make a YouTube playlist of them? I shall ask my mods to do that. Regarding meditation. With meditation, I can focus my mind and stop it from wandering. What if I enjoy wandering in the dream world? I think that's why I'm not motivated in doing meditation. Yeah, of course you enjoy motivation in the dream world. Let me explain something to you guys. So we're gonna, we're gonna, this is the last question we're gonna do. Okay. This person says, I enjoy like letting my mind wander in the dream world. Like should I stop? Like meditation doesn't let me do that. So first of all, you can enjoy the dream world the rest of the time when you're not meditating. But I want to talk for a second about fantasy. So when you guys feel bad and you start to fantasize about something, like let's say that I failed a test and then like my mind wanders and I feel bad, right? And then my mind wanders to like the day that I'm gonna be valedictorian and then everyone's gonna see then. And then what is that, what does that do to my emotions? So when I fantasize like and I'm feeling bad, I'm so confused. Okay. Okay. I'm talking about fantasy, right? Okay. So this I'm gonna, that's hilarious. Okay. Okay. So what you need to understand is, and that's just one day I'm gonna, I'm gonna troll you fuckers. One day, one day I'm gonna just troll. I'm gonna just end stream. Okay. So, oh man, I'm gonna troll y'all so hard. One day the boomer comments will get to be too much. And my hatred from you and I'll fantasize about one day I'm gonna troll them. I'm gonna teach twit chat. Who's a boomer now? Who's the boomer now? Fantasy about revenge, absolutely. So let's talk about fantasy. Okay. What you need to understand is that the motivation to change and the energy to create fantasies in your mind comes from one bucket. So when I like get humiliated at school, I feel a lot of negative emotion. And if I channel that emotion in the right way, I'm gonna actually change my life. Like I'll be like, oh man, like I'm just like out of shape and those guys like run me down every day. So I got to work out and like get better and get healthy. But if I fantasize, it decompresses all of that negative emotion. The negative emotion goes away, like, because you fantasize, right? And then you feel good at the end of the fantasy. That's what the fantasy is. That's why it's so addicting. So the energy to make a change in your life and the energy to fantasize comes from one bucket. So you have to decide where you, which, which way you want to use that energy. Do you want to use it to fantasize about your future or do you want to use it to make a change? And just notice this. Notice the things in your life that you fantasize about. Are those the things that you get stuck on or those are the things that you move forward upon? The more you fantasize, the more it saps away your energy to actually make a change. Yeah, of course, they feel really good. They make you feel really good. And there's actually some neuroscientific evidence to support this theory. This has been sort of my understanding based on my own, like looking at my mind and yoga and meditation. But if we look at the learning circuitry of the brain, if we look at the behavioral change circuitry of the brain, learning circuitry is very closely tied to your amygdala and limbic system. So our brain is wired to learn lessons from pain. So like if you, you know, are walking down the street and then like you slip on the ice and it hurts a lot, you are going to learn very quickly to pay attention to like ice on the street. Right? Like pain is like the greatest teacher. So if you like, let's say, so I mean, this happens sometimes where I'll work with someone who's has to deal with like deal with infidelity in their marriage. And if someone has to deal with infidelity in their marriage, if someone's like partner is unfaithful, they learn to like never trust anyone again. It's very hard for them to trust people in the future. And so like pain like teaches us and changes our behavior. They're like, fuck this. I'm never going to date anyone again. Like I'm never going to fall in love. Never. It changes that person. It changes their behavior. And it all comes from pain. And when you have that pain from a negative experience, when you have shame and stuff like that, and then you fantasize, it shuts that part of your brain off, which is the same thing with same thing that video games do. When you experience negative emotion and you play a video game, it shuts off that negative emotional part of your brain. It shuts off that negative emotional part of your brain, which changes your motivational drive and changes like deactivates the part of your brain that causes you to learn from your mistakes. Just think about that for a second. That our brain is wired to teach us how to learn from our mistakes. And that generally speaking, the way that we perceive mistakes is through pain. Like when you do something dumb or stupid, or you hurt yourself or you hurt someone else, you feel bad and then you learn a lesson from it. Think about the lessons that you learned and think about whether pain were involved. And then understand that if you turn off the circuitry that has you experience pain, how are you going to learn? And so now we understand, really importantly, why people who play video games make the same mistakes over and over and over again. You know you should go to class. You know you should study harder. You know you should go to the gym. But you don't have any reinforcement from it because those negative emotions are being turned off. It's not your fault. You're not dumb. It's just you're shutting off one of the biggest parts of your brain that teaches you to change. And fantasy does the same thing. That fantasy like calms those negative parts down. It sort of soothes you, makes you feel better, and then you're stuck. You're stuck. So do your best not to fantasize or be careful with what you fantasize. My life got a whole lot better when I stopped fantasizing about it. When I started focusing on doing things instead of like hoping and like wishing like oh like one day I'm going to do this or one day I'm going to do this. I just stopped. I mean I didn't just stop. I would continue to do. But I started changing the focus of my mind. I used dharana to change the attention and to focus the concentration and to concentrate on one thing. And then as I focused and concentrated on one thing, I batted fantasies aside. When fantasies would arise, it just nope. And just focus on the thing that you're doing. Your life will change. Your life will change. Just in your mind, you've got a certain number of stat points, right? Like actually not stat points. Let's call it like minerals or vestmine gas. Like you have a certain number of minerals. And you can do that. Like you have a certain number of minerals. And you can spend those minerals on creating change or you can spend those minerals on fantasizing. Same pool of energy. Same pool. I still play dota. Whenever I can. Okay. Okay, last question. Okay, so I built up a routine of daily meditation. It's been good. However, I feel it's a bit simplistic and it hasn't changed in over three years. Currently, I'm mostly just doing a type of mindfulness meditation where I just breathe and try to notice my thoughts and bring my attention to my breath. What resources, different techniques can I investigate to expand where I am? Watch our stream. I was going to say bro or woman or person. Just watch the stream. We're going to go through a lot of different meditation techniques. Okay. So let's do one last meditation technique. So I think you guys have it. Like we're going to do Shanmuki Mudra and Brahmari Branaya, which I know some of you guys liked and some of y'all didn't. But this is going to be like a very intensive meditation. So we're going to try it. It's going to look fucking weird and you're going to feel fucking weird doing it. Until you actually do it. So this is a meditation called Brahmari Mudra and Shanmuki. I mean, sorry, Shanmuki Mudra and Brahmari Branaya. So Shanmuki Mudra is like this. I type it. Stop typing chat. I'm going to type something. If you guys type, you're going to lose it. No, no, it's going. No, no, no, no one will know the answer. Okay. Okay. So Shanmuki Mudra is a Sanskrit for closing of the nine gates. Okay. So this is Shanmuki Mudra. So we have this thing called the pinna of our ear. So push the pinna up and then thumb inside the ear canal. Okay. So thumb inside the ear canal. So this is what Shanmuki Mudra looks like. So corners of the mouth, right outside the nostrils, inside of the eyes, outside of the eyes. Okay. And then Brahmari Branayam is... I'll tell you guys how to do it. That's just the first phase. That's a mudra. That's a hand sign. That's like going like this. Like you guys know, like these kinds of hand signs that people do when they meditate. That's a mudra. It's not the actual meditation. Brahmari Branayam is bee's breath. So you're going to buzz like a bee or hum. Okay. We're going to put them together. Got it? So I'm going to walk you guys through it. We're going to do five breaths. Okay. And it's going to be hard to tell what I'm doing because you're not going to be able to see me or hear me. So I'm going to just do it. You guys do it. Okay. Okay. Okay. The finger part I probably should have done slower. Okay. So we're going to do, I'm going to try to teach you guys again. Got it? So we'll do again. Corners. Outside. Inside. Slide. And the thumbs. Pin. Pin of the ear. Into the ear canal. Plug it up. Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. If you guys want an easier version, we'll do this. You can do above the eyebrows and below the eyes. One more. Okay. So. This is important. Focuses the mind. Remember all these are dharanas to focus the attention of your mind on one point. That's the purpose of all these. They all have other reasons too. But. So some of you guys did this, some of you all didn't. And like that's important to recognize. Because for those of you who didn't do it, think a little bit about why you didn't do it. And think a little bit about did you think that this was silly? Did you think this is stupid? Did you think you didn't know how to do it? Did you think that like you may be doing it wrong? Like did you even try? And really look at yourself. Right? Embarrassment? Good. Please notice. I mean I offered this one because some people, this is a more engrossing or powerful meditation, but it's hard to do. Okay. All right. So. I think that's going to be it guys. I'm going to be out for the holidays for one week, I think. So I think I'll be streaming, actually maybe for two weeks. I'll be streaming Sunday, January 5th. So I think I will catch you guys in 2020. Not the earlobe. Earlobe is this. Push the pinna out and go inside. Okay. The reason that I try to type in Twitch chat is so that the people who have questions can use this thing called Google and get instructions from things called YouTube because sometimes I'm a shitty teacher. But since you guys are trolling me and don't want me to type in Twitch chat and contribute, I guess those people are SOL. I wish all of you guys happy, happy holidays. And let me just figure out what we... Let's write someone. Wreckful.