 And so we're about to do Q&A. So this is a weird question, but let me just think about, okay, so let's do some questions about meditation because we just meditated. I always thought meditation was some kind of bullshit where people say they reach some whole new level of holiness and all of that. Can you put it in a simple way why should regular people meditate once in a while? Yeah, absolutely. So if you guys want the simplest reason to meditate, the goal of meditation is to actually be conscious without the function of the mind. So to be conscious without thinking. So understand that your mind is the thing that thinks. The mind is the thinking machine. And this may need more questions. I mean, you guys may have to ask more questions. I'm happy to explain more. But the simplest reason to meditate is because you need to spend time outside of your mind. So understand that anxiety, sadness, depression, all of those happen within the mind, right? Those are products of the mind. And so meditation gives you a state of being that is completely outside of mind. So all of the stuff that comes out of mind cannot exist when you're in that state of meditation. Hopes, dreams, love, attachment, expectations, desires, sadness, anxiety, all of that shit gets wiped away when you meditate. That's why you should meditate because your brain deserves a break from you. That's why you should meditate, right? That's the simplest reason. You want the simplest reason? That's it. So let's talk about that for a second. We think we are our minds. And if we think we are, our sense of identity has to do with our mind. So I identify as certain things. Like I'm a doctor, I'm a boomer, apparently. I'm a gamer, I'm a father, I'm a psychiatrist, I'm a slacker, I'm a legend to scrub on Dota. These are the ways that I identify with myself, right? And each of those things comes, like brings attachments with it. And those attachments can lead to like some kind of suffering. So to meditate is to be like neutral, is to find like a part of like the truest version of yourself because each of those statements about myself can like change over time. Like those are not the real me. Like one day I may not be a legend to scrub. I may be like an ancient one scrub. I used to be ancient by the way, before I had kids and stuff. 4K MMR back in the day, like five years ago, back when I used to play Dota. And one day I may not be a physician, one day I may not be a father, one day I may not be a boomer, right? I may learn how to use the internet one day. And so all of these parts of our identity are fluctuating. Like they change. Like I feel like I'm successful, I feel like I'm a failure, like maybe one day I get banned from Twitch and then I'm like, I'm not a Twitch streamer anymore. So all of the, when we think about ourselves, we think about a lot of things that we believe are permanent, but aren't actually permanent, they're temporary. So how do you find out what you really are? How do you find the thing that is completely stable and is the real you? Because all the other shit can change. Sense of identity, like even things that we used to think were super stable, like a sense of gender identity is fluid, right? People like grow up thinking that they're a man and then one day they wake up and they're like, I'm a woman trapped in a man's body, fine. So identity fluctuates. So how do you find the real you? You meditate because all of that stuff exists within the mind. And when you meditate, all of that stuff goes away and you see the fundamental experience of who you are and that changes you. So I'll tell you guys something like, so this was kind of my journey to understanding this, is I learned how to meditate and then my father passed away and I remember being like really, really sad. This was about eight years ago. So I was like filled with grief and stuff because he's my dad and he was super proud. Like he was a doctor and he wanted me to go to medical school and then I got into medical school and like the day that I called him and I told him I got in, he like wept, he was just so happy for me and then about eight months later he passed away. So when I was a first year medical student. So I remember like flying back to Texas from Boston and I watched his, so I went to the funeral and so then there's this corpse, right? And I saw his corpse and I broke down crying and then like while I was crying, I was like, let me try to meditate real quick. And sometimes when I meditated, I had this sense of like vast emptiness within me. It was kind of comforting, but it was just like this vast like ocean of just like nothingness, it's hard to describe. The way I would describe it is I felt like I was a star in the sky, which doesn't make any sense unless you've experienced it. It's like trying to explain an orgasm to someone who hasn't had sex, they're just never gonna get it, right? So I had this experience and then I was like, okay, right now, like this is like I'm filled with grief, can I still find that thing? So I meditated and then sure enough, like that part that I felt that was meditating was exactly the same. It was like exactly the same and I felt like completely peaceful and on top of the peace, I felt like this overwhelming grief, it's a really bizarre thing to describe. And then one month later, I got married. I mean, the wedding was planned, it wasn't like, I was like so like grief distraught that I proposed or got someone pregnant. So I was gonna get married, it was like planned. And then it was sort of a, people were like, it was kind of bittersweet because obviously my dad had just passed away. And then I like presumably I was super happy like I was getting married, I was having a lot of fun. And then when I was like supposedly like one of the happiest moments of my life, I stopped and I meditated and I found that same sensation that there is a part of me that is constant and that that is the real me. And that everything else above all of the experiences of life, sadness, happiness, success, failure, devastation, joy, underneath all of that is something that is constant. That's why you should meditate so you can find that thing. Because most people go through life without any kind of constant. Everything about their life is subject to change. So when people talk about shit like the true self, they say like meditate to like find your inner self, man. Find that true self. Oh man, like yeah, like Lululemon pants and Oprah Winfrey, like find yourself. Yeah, like yoga studios. Yeah, like there's nothing wrong with that. Like that's fucking stupid. There is a part of you like that's true, but they don't understand what the fuck they're talking about. There's a part of you that is literally unchanging. And once you discover that part of you, life becomes way easier. So I remember a couple of years later, I was in the operating room and there was this vascular surgeon. I was doing a vascular surgery for a carotid end-argyrectomy, which is you have this thing called the carotid artery. And the carotid artery gets blocked with like shit. And then people have strokes because it's blocked and that's the main artery that feeds the front side of your brain. And so what you do is you go in with surgery and you pull the gunk out. So not shit. I mean, it gets filled with like cholesterol and stuff, like the same stuff that hardens the arteries of your heart. And gets inflamed and things like that. So I was in this surgery, right? And surgeons are not the nicest people. And so this guy is doing the surgery and then he like cuts something that he's not supposed to cut. And the shit starts bleeding. And like the field of vision for a neck surgery is like tiny. It's like you've got this little patch of like maybe, you know, one and a half inch by one and a half inch of like the neck that's open, it's very small. So it doesn't take a whole lot of blood to like fill it up. And he doesn't see what the, he doesn't see where the bleed is coming from. So he's on one side of the table, I'm on the other side of the table. And then he's like looking for the blood. Like he's looking for like what he cut and what's bleeding and he can't find it. And so he's kind of an asshole. So I tend to stay quiet, but I say like, hey, this guy's been a fucking stroke out. And so I make the mistake of opening my mouth because he can't see it. Cause he's on this side of the table and it's like spurting out like down here, like over here. So I'm on the other side of the table. I can see exactly where the blood is coming from. And so I make the mistake of opening my fucking mouth. And I say, Dr. So-and-so, I think the bleed is on this side. And what do you guys think his response is? Medical student, when I want your fucking opinion, I will ask for it. Right? So most medical students in this situation would be devastated, but I laugh inside myself and I was like, fine. Like you're a fucking asshole. I can see the bleed. If you don't find it, this guy's gonna like be brain damaged. You're a dick. And like most people are devastated because it's a high stakes kind of thing. And he's like yelling at you. And he's like yelling at you. I may have even said something snide because other people in the room started laughing. I don't remember, but. And so like when you find that thing underneath you, like normally getting yelled at by a surgeon in the OR, there's so many of my colleagues that would like start crying. And like, cause like you get devastated cause like these fucking people, they yell at you. And then you feel like a piece of shit because they're all high and mighty. And you're like a lowly person. Like getting yelled at by someone is like not nice. It's a stressful situation. Emotions are running high. But if you find that core of yourself that is not like sad or happy or anything, like it gives you so much strength. You just go to that thing. You go to that thing and you find it. And there are times where, you know, like, like I don't know if it's, so sometimes I have a cup of tea in the morning. And like when I drink my tea, like for a few moments, I'm like nothing. I'm just like one with the tea. And you're drinking that tea and it's fucking delicious. You have no hopes. You have no fears. You have no anxieties. You're just like one with the, no, he ended up finding the bleed and the guy was okay. He found the bleed. Cause I told him where it was. I was like, it's over here. And then he like mopped it up and then found it and sewed it. Right? And yeah, I guess I should have told you that. That's like part of the story too. He ended up being fine. I ended up getting a good grade in the rotation too, by the way. I ended up getting honors. So they actually tried to convince me to be a vascular surgeon. And I thought about it for a hot second. They said I was too smart to become a psychiatrist. That's what they told me at the end of the rotation. Like you'd be fucking wasted in psychiatry. You should become a real doctor. And I was like, thank you. So I'm seriously, that was their feedback, honest to God. So, you know, I think fine. So the reason you should meditate is to find that thing within yourself, right? To find the part of you that's constant and doesn't fluctuate. And once you discover that thing and you have access to that thing, you can kind of like, you're kind of like floating above the rest of your life. It's like, you know, I don't know how else to describe it. So that's why you should meditate. And I think what happens when you find that thing is you become like holier. So we have this concept of holiness, which is like, I don't know exactly what that means, but I think generally like things like compassion become more easy. Like patience becomes easier, compassion becomes easier. Dealing with sadness becomes easier. Dealing with happiness becomes easier. You become like more like level, which is I think part of what they mean by holy. So I'm gonna relate this to another question. How do you gain confidence as a clinician? That's another question that I got. And I gained confidence because I find this thing. And so sometimes I do a bad job as a clinician and sometimes I do a good job as a clinician because I'm not a perfect clinician, right? Just like we were talking about, I try to do the best job that I can every day. And I come on stream and I just try to do the best job that I can, which is sometimes it's like, if I stop and think about coming on stream, it's fucking terrifying. Just think about this for a second. When you guys show up on stream, like what are you looking for? You're looking for salvation. That's why you guys come, right? And just think about this for a second. Like, what the fuck is it like for me to come on and be like, oh shit, Friday at 3 p.m., time to give out some dead salvation, time to transform people's lives. Like I can't do that shit, come on. Right? Like I can't, like you can't expect that of me and I can't expect it of myself, but somewhere along the way, I start to think like, oh my God, like I better save someone's life. Like I gotta help these people today. And then it's like, oh shit. Like, if I start thinking that, then it's gonna be hard. So then I just like, I meditate and then I recalibrate and then I focus on the person sitting across from me. And I cross my fingers and I pray to God that it's gonna help you. That's the only way to do it. Right? So meditation is about like forgetting all that stuff. It's not about saving the world. Like it's like, sure, AOE healing is cool and all that. Like that's what I'm trying to do. But I can't expect that I'm gonna transform the world with my streams. Like it's not an expectation. I'm just gonna show up and try to help in the way that I can. And like, if people get transformed, great. If they don't, that's okay too. You know, it's like, no big deal. No big deal. And be, okay. So that's why you should meditate. I hope that's good enough of an answer and simple enough of an answer. And the reason that you become holier and compassionate is because you get out of your fucking head. So it's like, you know, I didn't, like you can be a more decent human being because you're less caught up in your own shit. And like being a decent human being, people start calling you like holier and a saint. Like that's just, because it's hard. And that's because you're normally caught up in your own stuff.