 Hold the thought, pay attention. So this is what I want y'all to do, chat. There's two meditations here. One we're gonna teach you guys in a little bit. So first meditation is pay attention to yourself. And notice what happens when you have a goal and you're looking for motivation. Notice the thought that would get you to go. And then notice what happens to it. Don't even try to hold it at first. Just notice what happens to it, right? Cause if you try to hold it, then what's gonna happen? Oh, like I need to go to the gym. And then you're like, oh my God. Oh my God, I'm trying so hard to hold it. I'm trying so hard to hold it. I'm trying so hard to hold it. It's not actually thinking about the gym. Or I need to go to the gym. Oh my God, I'm so dumb. I can't hold it. I can't hold it. I can't hold it. I'm so bad at this. I'm so lazy. I'm so undisciplined. Not even holding the thought. Weird. Pay attention. So understand first, chat. Open up that user manual. Look at the FAQ of your mind and learn about yourself. Second thing, Trataka. We're gonna teach you guys a Yantra Trataka, okay? So Trataka is fixed point gazing. So what I'm gonna teach you guys to do, what we're gonna do is open our, we're gonna like stare at something and we're gonna like look at it without blinking, okay? So what I want y'all to do is I'm gonna show you a picture and I'm gonna instruct you to look at the middle of the picture without blinking. Now, you can do a half-lidded gaze. If it starts to get too painful, you can close your eyes, but try to hold your gaze as long as you can. Your eyes will start to tear up a little bit, which is totally fine. That's actually like a good thing. It's gonna lubricate your eyes if they start to dry out. We're gonna keep our eyes open for about 30 to nine, probably 60 to 90 seconds. If you need to close them before that, that's totally fine. We're gonna stare at one point and then I'm gonna instruct your mind what to do, okay? So I'm gonna tell y'all to concentrate at one thing. So your eyes are gonna be pointing to one thing like this, but I'm gonna tell your attention to move around the periphery. So I want you guys to stare at my nose, but pay attention to the corner of my chair. And you can sort of see it in your peripheral vision. Does that make sense? You can move your attention away from where your eyes are focused. I want everyone to sit up straight, okay? So this is the Sri Yantra that's on Wikipedia, okay? If anyone's looking for a source. So what we're gonna do, I want y'all to start by closing your eyes. Just close your eyes first. Sit up straight. We're gonna take a deep breath in and out. Good, we're just gonna calm down for a second. We're gonna take a couple of breaths. And now I'm gonna ask you to slowly open your eyes and stare at the red dot right in the center, okay? We're not gonna blink now. Stare at the red dot. Focus on it. Look at it, look at it, look at it. We're gonna just focus on that red dot. Your mind will be distracted by the sensations of not blinking, so that's okay. Just keep looking at the dot. Try to return your attention to it. Squint if you need to. I haven't done this in a while. I'm out of practice. Woo. Okay, just look at the dot. Gently, gently now, gently. Relax. So notice that as you let the tension out, it becomes easier to look. Deep breath in and out. Focus on your breathing. Keep looking, don't blink. Okay, now as you stare at the red dot, I want you to focus on the yellow triangle around it. Don't move your eyes, but let your attention move to the yellow triangle. And after a breath, go back to the red dot. Go to the green triangles around that. Remember, we're not gonna move our eyes, but move your attention outward. Expand your attention. And then expand outward to the black triangles. And then expand outward to the red triangles. Don't let your eyes move. Expand outward to the blue triangles. Nice deep breath, settle. And then slowly move outward to what you see outside of that, the red petals. And then the yellow petals. Take a deep breath in. Close your eyes. Feel the relief and notice the after image. Look at the center of the after image. So focus on the center of the after image with your eyes closed. And notice the different aspects. So you can even move outward from the center and put your attention to the after image, the triangles, the circles. Then you may even notice it's like hard to hold onto the image, but you can almost relax a little bit and it'll float to the surface. So what we're gonna teach you how to do is let it float forward. So look at it, concentrate on it, but if you hold on too tight, it may become too hard. All right, now put your hands together in front of you. Rub them together, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub. And then cop them over your eyes. Deep breaths in and out. Now slowly open your eyes and let your hands come down. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay, blinking is fine. Better to blink than hurt yourself. Okay, chat, this is a forbidden jutsu. It is a powerful technique. There's so much to understand about this technique. It will teach you guys so many different things. So take home points. Number one, do what you can. If you need to blink, you need to blink, okay? Practice, practice, practice, practice, practice makes perfect, right? So adept meditators can comfortably do this for like 20 minutes, 30 minutes, arguably maybe even up to an hour. I don't know, I don't think I've ever done therataka for like longer than half an hour. And the interesting thing is that there's a very cool physiology behind it too, like the way that your photoreceptors work and stuff like that. But the key thing here is focus. That's all you guys really need to learn from this. And there's a lot of other benefits too. People who do therataka really well learn a real, because we think about focusing as effortful, right? I don't know if people get this, but optimal flow state is not a state of stress. It's a state of relaxed focus. So therataka is the best practice to learn relaxed focus. And it's especially in the second phase of therataka after we close our eyes. Because if you're too stressed, the image is like shaky and you have to like sorta like step back and the image will float to the surface. But holding it there, if you step back too much, it'll slip away. So it's like this sweet spot of like attention and focus. Right, so if you didn't see the image, that's okay. So the image is gonna become more clear the longer you're able to keep your eyes open. And there's a physiologic reason for that. And it has to do with the way that your, I think rhodopsin is the pigment, exhausts in your eyes and how it needs to get replenished. The shape is called the yantra. That is Sri Yantra. And there's also spiritual elements to this practice as well. By the way, there's a lot about this stuff in Dr. K's guide for people who are like curious and you know, more about it. But there's even a spiritual component where the object that you concentrate on is supposed to cultivate a particular kind of spiritual energy. Now, when I teach meditation, I sort of have three kind of perspectives on it. One is psychological, one is neuroscientific and one is spiritual or physiological as well. So like this practice, I feel really confident in like the psychological effects and the neuroscientific effects. I understand the physiology of what happens in your eyes and like why it happens and stuff like that. The spiritual stuff, you know, I personally place value in, but you don't need to. People are curious about that. We can teach you guys about different kinds of yantras and cultivating, you know, cosmic energies and all that good stuff. But let's set that aside. So let's just be a little bit scientific today and focus on the psychological and experiential aspect and also like the neuroscience of how meditation helps motivation. So someone's asking, why does this help motivation? Because we just explained that motivation is the ability to hold one thing in your mind for an extended period of time. And this is the practice that's basically like pushups for that. Someone's asking, if you wanna quit something, can you think about not doing it? Abs... No. Because, wait, hold on, this is a tricky question. If you wanna quit something, can you think about not doing it? No. Because then you're thinking about not doing it. If you wanna quit something, you can not think about it. That'll work. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but think about all of the things that you've quit. Why did you quit them? Because you stopped thinking about them. Right, so if you like think about like getting into a game, right? Oh, there's a bunch of hype, there are a bunch of advertisements. Each of those advertisements is putting the thought in your head. Then you see your favorite streamers like playing beta and it's like, oh my God, then you're thinking about it. And then you're thinking about it. Then you're thinking about it more and more. Then you play the game. You play it for eight hours. And during that eight hours, you're thinking about the game. And then when you go to bed at night, you're thinking about the game. And when you wake up in the morning, you're thinking about the game. And then what do you wanna do? You wanna play it. Think about the games that y'all used to play when you were nine. Why don't you play them anymore? Do you think about them and not play them? No, you stopped thinking about it. Right? Why do we stop playing games, chat? Because we stopped thinking about them. Can you go too far OCD? Absolutely, you can go too far. That is exactly what OCD is. I don't know if someone's joining late, but like we literally talked about OCD. So check out the VOD, I guess. So someone's asking, where can I learn all of this Ayurveda knowledge like you? So first thing to understand, this isn't about Ayurveda. This has very little to do with Ayurveda. So this is more yoga. And it's because people have been asking that question, hey, Dr. K, where can I learn this stuff? That's why we put together Dr. K's guide. Because it's not Ayurveda. Like I can't point y'all to a single book. What we teach on stream is a synthesis of knowledge. It includes all the, oh, hold on. It includes all the crap on the bookshelf, right? There are books on Ayurveda, there are books on neuroscience, there are books on psychology, there are books on yoga, there are books on meditation, there are books on Buddhism. We try to put it all together for you. I'm done with my part of the guide. I was highly motivated for a long period of time, even though it was obscenely painful and tiring. But I'm done. So now it's in post-production. Why don't you use the word mindfulness? There's like literally a video about that in Dr. K's guide. So here's the reason I don't use mindfulness. Because mindfulness is not meditation. So what happened is scientists who had had personal experiences with meditation tried to figure out, like there are all these different types of meditation, right? There's like mantra chanting, and then there's like Zen meditation, and then there's like tantric meditation, and then there's like Kundalini meditation and Kriya meditation. And so like people were sitting there like, how do I understand, like how can we study this? Because it's so different. And so what they did is they settled on mindfulness. What they did is they took all of the meditative traditions and they tried their best to reduce it down to the most common component. And what they settled on was mindfulness. And then we started studying mindfulness. And the way that I describe it is like, there's bread, there's pasta, there's couscous, there's rice, and then there are carbs. And so there's value in understanding carbs, but like, I don't wanna feed people carbs. I wanna feed people like rice and bread and couscous, right? Like those are the real thing. Like you can reduce something to its most basic building blocks, but in my experience, meditation is in a sense better than mindfulness. Or mindfulness is just one branch of meditation because there are a lot of different branches of meditation and mindfulness is just one of them. It's in a specific branch. So we teach some kinds of mindfulness, but sometimes we don't teach mindfulness. We teach the Haraanas, which are the opposite of mindfulness. So Trataka is not mindfulness. Mindfulness tends to be the cultivating the witnessing attitude, which is observing things. Dharana is different because it's focusing your mind. It's not observing something, it's forcing it into a place. And so when I work with patients with trauma, I do not teach mindfulness. Because when you have trauma and you have psychological defense mechanisms that are trying to keep it varied, and you just like observe it and you let it out, like those people don't do well. And so even if you look at the techniques, the mindfulness techniques that work for people with trauma, they're not really true mindfulness. They're actually grounding techniques, which is different. They're focusing techniques. They're actually the exact opposite of mindfulness, but we just call it mindfulness in the scientific community. Because no one, you know. Now that science has discovered something, they think they understand it, which is what happens with science. How often should we do this meditation? I would say at a minimum of every other day, ideally every day. Five to 20 minutes. Sakshi Bhav. S-A-K-S-H-I B-H-A-V. It means witnessing attitude in Sanskrit. It's just once, it's the most actually basic state of consciousness on the path to meditation. Yeah, so people are asking how to do this. So what I would say is like, you know, start with 30 to 60 seconds of open-eyed Dhrataka and then close your eyes and do that. And then you can try again. And eventually what you wanna do is try to extend the amount that your eyes are open, because remember you're gonna have the eyes closed for the same amount of time. So like if I can hold my eyes open for 90 seconds, and then I keep my eyes closed for like another 90 seconds or two minutes or five minutes, that's fine. And then over time you wanna work your way up to 20 minutes of total practice.