 All righty, folks, let's go ahead and begin. So welcome to the Healthy Gamer webinar, day two. Okay. All right, so let's get started. So my name is Dr. Ollo Konoja. Welcome to the Healthy Gamer webinar, day two. So we decided to do this webinar because we, you know, I know a bunch of people are kind of stuck at home with COVID. And so we thought it would be a good opportunity to offer a different kind of content. What we're hoping to do is offer more comprehensive teaching about various concepts. So welcome to day two. I'm excited. I'm glad that, you know, all of you guys are here. Just a little bit about the structure of the webinar. So we're going to start with 10 minutes of yoga. And based on yesterday's feedback, thank you very much to everyone who filled it out. We are I'm going to start by actually demonstrating one round and we're going to go slower and we're going to do three rounds today. So actually yoga may take a little bit longer than 10 minutes. The second thing, so the topic for the day, so we do yoga for about 10 minutes, then we cover a topic for somewhere between 30 and 50 minutes. And the topic today is going to be anxiety. So I'm going to explain kind of my take on anxiety. And really not so much, we're going to go into some detail, but I think a big part of the reason that I'd like to talk about anxiety today is to teach some basic principles about how the mind works. And as we better understand, like, what are the rules of the mind, then I think our ability to control ourselves sort of improves over time. And so we're going to talk a little bit about anxiety today. And then we'll have time for Q&A. And I think another piece of feedback about last week's or sorry, yesterday's webinar was that people felt like the Q&A was a little bit disorganized. I completely agree. And so they're hoping for a little bit more structure and maybe even a little bit more time for Q&A. So I'm not quite sure exactly how we're going to manage that, but we're going to do our best. So we'll have a little bit more time for Q&A. And then we'll end with about 10 minutes of meditation. So we're going to start with yoga. So I encourage everyone to get up and do yoga with me. So the purpose of doing the webinar at the same time every day and starting it with yoga so that you guys can start out with yoga. I think it's a great way to start your day. It's a great way to sort of physically get up and moving a little bit. And we can talk a little bit more about that. Okay. So let me just make sure we have this. There we go. Okay. So let's do it. So a reminder that I'm going to demonstrate one round of Surya Namaskar. And then I'll try to do... Let me actually just move this back a little bit. Okay. All right. So Surya Namaskar is the Sanskrit phrase that means sun salutation. So this is a set of yoga practices that's designed to do first thing in the morning. And it kind of prepares your body and your mind for the day. So the first step of Surya Namaskar is I'm going to stand with my feet close together, kind of at attention. And then arms kind of relaxed in a namaste position. And then the first step is arms up. So biceps are going to be near the ears. So I'm going to try to give you guys a couple of like physical landmarks that if you try to do the posture is going to be a little bit easier to achieve. And then second one is step down or go down and touch your toes. Remember, the goal here is not to touch your toes. We don't want to bend our knees. It's really to just bend your back and let gravity do the work for you. So go ahead and lean down. You guys can just watch this round. Right? Third round, I'm going to put my hands, the palms of my hands right next to my feet. So they're forming kind of a little bit of a line. So show it to you guys this way. That sort of makes sense. And then what I'm going to do is put one leg back. And so once again, hand, foot, hand, leg back here. And then what you can really notice about this pose, you can look up or you're supposed to look up, is that you can kind of like lean into it and you'll feel like a different stretch. You can kind of come back out, lean into it, come back out. And this knee should kind of be right next to your shoulder. So I'll kind of demonstrate maybe on this side. Okay. And then this leg back. And now we're going to kind of be in push-up position. So you want to be kind of straight. And then down. And for this position, you want toes, knees, chest, so your butt is slightly elevated, and then forward. And then we push up. So hips go into the ground, back is bent. Shoulders are not like this. Shoulders are rolled out, elbows are bent. That's completely fine. As you get better, you'll be able to push up more, but we can stay low. It's not a big deal. Look up. And I want you guys to notice when you do yoga, even as you move a subtle part of your body, like your neck, you'll notice different things in other parts of your body. And then we go to parvatasan or mountain pose. Once again, ears by the biceps. Put your heels into the ground. Other leg forward. Look up again. And then back to head down. You'll notice that even between the first round and the second round, your flexibility is going to be far more increased. And that's the purpose of yoga. We go up again. And then back to the center. Now you guys do it with me. We're going to do three rounds. We're going to go slow. Maybe this yoga is going to take a little bit longer, actually. So start with your feet apart. Close your eyes. Go ahead and just feel your body for a moment. And now put your feet together. Feel the instability. Open your eyes. And then close them again. You can use this just slight opening and closing of the eyes, like open for a few seconds. Feel the stability return. Close your eyes. Feel the instability. So even that can kind of anchor you in the present. It's going to be an important skill we'll talk about later. Namaste position. Deep breath in and out. And now begin. So raise your arms up slowly. Biceps to ears. Go ahead and stretch your arms up a little bit. Good. Feel that expansion in your back. And now the next step will be to touch our toes. Bend down to touch your toes. So go ahead and do that. Let gravity do the work for you. Let yourself hang. Let your head hang. Hold that for about 10 seconds. Just hang. You don't have to be very low. You can do this. You can do this. Wherever your back feels like. Doesn't matter. And now palms by your feet. Right leg back and look up. Hold that for a second. Try to get into the position. Breathe. Notice as your body sends you signals. It's going to be talking to you. And then put your other leg back. Push up position. Look up. If you feel tired, that's okay. If your muscles are quaky, that's okay. You can put your knees down. Toes down. Chest down. Forehead. And we're going to go ahead and just hang out here for a second. Okay. Palms touching the ground. Toes touching the ground. Chest touching the ground. Forehead touching the ground. Feel the back of your neck. Feel your lower back. Big deep breaths. And now what we're going to do is hips into the ground. Back starting to bend. Shoulders nice and out. Elbows bent. And look up. Notice the constricted breathing. And now, we're going to go ahead and just hang out here. And now, go ahead and make a triangle with your body. Ears to the biceps. And try to put your feet into the ground. So put your heels down. Try to stand, kind of keep your feet flat on the ground. And as you do that, you'll notice a lot of stretch in your calves. That's the purpose. Okay. Now, what we're going to do is put our other leg forward. So right leg forward between the hands. Come up. And then look up. And now, I want you guys to really try to get into it. Like, move your hips towards the floor. Right? Let your leg... You know, you can be up like this with your back curved. Sort of like a turtle. Or you can straighten your back out. And as you straighten your back out, notice what happens to your hips. Notice what happens to your legs. Notice what happens to your thighs. So kind of get into the position and look up. And now, bring the other foot forward. Come up a little bit. And lean into it. As you exhale, go ahead and go a little bit further. Notice what happens when you exhale. Your stretch increases. Feel that stretch in your body. Let it anchor you in the present. We're in the present. We're in the here and now. Not thinking about anything but this. And now up. Let your palms come together. Go ahead and feel... Feel sort of the relaxation of this pose. And then come back. In the mustive position, feet together. Let yourself breathe. And notice your body catching up with breath. Also notice that even though you're catching up on your breath, your breath is slower. There's less of it. Your breaths are going to be deeper, very naturally. Your respiratory rate will be decreased. You'll notice maybe even pauses between your breaths. This is not usually how we breathe, right? Usually it's in-out. In-out. Your breath is like, hey man, we're fine, dude. We don't need oxygen. We don't need oxygen right now. We're good. And now we're going to do one more round, okay? We'll try to do two. Just depends on time. I guess we can do two. Let's do two. So let's begin again. So arms up. Notice the big breath. Easy to breathe. Expansion of chest. Biceps by your ears. And now down. Let yourself hang. Let your head hang especially. Now we're going to switch it up. We're going to do palms by our sides, I mean by our feet, and left leg back this time. You're going to look up, curve your back, or make it straight. You don't want to curve. You don't want turtle back. As best as you can, look up, and then let your hips kind of roll into it. You definitely don't want to rock. I mean, that's not good in yoga, but it can be nice to feel. And then other leg back. Push-up position. Keep your back straight. And then we're going to do a little bit of a push-up. Kind of look towards the floor. And now knees. So you're going to feel your toes, right? So feel your toes on the ground, and then put your knees down. If you're tired, that's fine too. And then you still have kind of a straight back. And then roll forward. Chest and forehead. And notice that as you put your chest and forehead to the floor, your butt is naturally going to go up, and your neck is naturally going to stretch. And feel that stretch in your neck. You guys can just chill here for a second if you want. And now push-up, Bhujangasana. That's a Sanskrit name for the pose. So hips into the ground now. Shoulders rolled out, not like this. This is what you guys may want to do. You're going to push up. You can use your arms to push up, right? But don't do that. Shoulders out. It's going to weaken the strength of your arms and the ability to push up your body. And you're going to turn, you're going to come down a little bit, which is perfectly fine. You do not want your arms to push your back past where it wants to go. So stay like this. It's going to be physically way more taxing, which is perfectly fine. If you guys need to rest, you can actually go back to this. We're going to go to Bhujangasana. Elbows bent, shoulders out, back bent, hips to the ground, look up, and then Parvatasana. Mountain pose. We're going to use a couple of our anchors here, like ears to biceps once again. Heels into the ground, flattening of the feet, which is going to create stretch in the calf. Let it happen. Feel the blood flow into your brain. And now right leg forward. Now look up, straighten the back, move your hips into it, and feel the freeness of your breath. And now we're going to come up, foot forward, hands hanging down, head hanging down. And now palms together. Go back to standing straight and tall. Feel the relaxation. Let your hands come down. And now notice this position. So I want you guys to understand that this starting position with Namaste position, with your hands in front of you, doesn't feel like much when you start the practice, but just notice how you feel at the end of the practice. This is how this position was developed. It wasn't to start the practice, it's actually to end the practice. And your body's like, man, that was good, but I'm glad we're not doing it anymore. Notice kind of the tingly sensations and the energy, that's the sensation of prana. Prana is life energy or chi. Your body is waking up. Now we're going to do our third round, okay? Do this one a little bit more. And then we're going to do the last one. We're going to do our third round, okay? We're going to do this one a little bit faster. So take a deep breath in, out, and arms up. Ears to your biceps. Stretch, stretch your back. Reach your arms up. Keep your feet flat on the ground, but otherwise reach up, reach up. Now down. Head hanging, arms hanging. Go ahead and move into it. Let gravity do the work for you. No further than you feel like going. Palms by your feet. Right foot back. Look up. And now other foot back. Push-up position. And then come down. Toes, knees, chest, and forearms. And then come back. And then come back. And then come back. And then come back. Toes, knees, chest, and forearms. And then hips into the ground. Push-up. Bend your back. Look up. Shoulders rolled out. Elbows bent. Good. And then... I think this is downward facing dog. Heels to the ground. Ears to the elbows. And now right leg forward. Look up. Breathe. And now come up. Head hangs. Body hangs. Feel how close we are to our toes. You can do it. You can touch them. So easy. Arms up. And then come back. Arms up. And then come back down. And then let yourself breathe. So now I'm going to teach you guys another asan. It's called shavasan or corpse pose. So then what I want you to do with your eyes closed, go ahead and kneel down. And then I want you guys to lay down on your left side. And then I want you to lay down on your back with your arms and palms face up. Let your feet hang out. Go to your sides. Let them just relax. And just lay. And then come back down. And then come back down. And just feel the ground underneath you. You can put your attention on your breath. You can put your attention on your breath. Okay. Since we've got a lot to do today, we're going to go ahead and sit down and do some shavasan. So let's do shavasan. So shavasan is a form of meditation. We've got a lot to do today. We're going to go ahead and sit back up. Move in whatever way feels comfortable. Go ahead and work out any kinks that are left. Sit up. Let's go ahead and come on back. Okay. So... Alright, so that took 30 minutes. Okay, so I've got a question for you guys, okay? Let's do a poll. So we're going to do a poll. What do you guys want to talk about today? Yoga or anxiety? I think we can just talk about yoga, actually, if you guys want. Alright, so let me know. So we can just talk about what yoga is or we can go back to anxiety and how yoga works. Oh man, I love this. Okay, so it sounds like we're sticking with anxiety. No? Within like five seconds, I saw a huge spike for anxiety. So we'll do that. That's okay. We'll stick with anxiety, okay? It's all the same anyway. Okay, thank you guys very much. I found that very helpful. Okay, so... Oh, interesting. Okay. So someone suggested that I use a different note-taking app, which I'm happy to, but I just realized that I can't screen capture on this app. I don't know how to, but we're actually going to go back to just regular notes, okay? Oh. Okay. Alright, so... Let's talk about anxiety. Oh my god, my OCD is killing me. Okay. So let's go ahead and screen share. And let's go ahead and go back to this. Channel your inner boomer. Okay. So then what we're going to do is this. So let's talk about anxiety. Are you guys seeing this okay? Let me just make sure. So, question number one. What is anxiety? Right? Let's start with basics. Oh, interesting. Looks like I can't cast. Maybe it's because it's using reflector. Okay, so what is anxiety? So the first thing is, let's just think a little bit about what our experience of anxiety is. So when I'm anxious about something, I'm worrying, right? So we use this word worry. And so what is worry? Thinking of consequences. Right? We're usually worried about stuff. We're worried about, oh, what are people going to think of me? What's going to happen at work today? What is my boyfriend or girlfriend going to think? What are, how do I look? Are people going to think I'm stupid? So there are all kinds of thoughts. But they're basically thinking about consequences. Usually of your actions. Like if I go to, you know, if I go out with friends and I open my mouth, is everyone going to think I'm dumb? If I answer a question and I get it wrong in class, is everyone going to think I'm done? And so that's really what worry is. So it's thinking about consequences. And so the next question is if we look at consequences, this is going to sound like a weird question. When do consequences happen? And the answer is, in the future. So the first thing to understand about anxiety is, anxiety is our mind's ability to predict problems in the future. Okay? So, so, so, so, okay, so, so if we think about this, so like let's say here's our mind, right? Here's our brain, whatever. It's a bad looking brain. Five head. So we'll give this person Dr. K's artwork, okay? So, this is who we are and this is your anxious mind, right? Because the anxious mind is kind of like always, you know, it's a little bit romantic, it feels heavy. And then since we're anxious, we're going to give you a frowny face. Alright? That's a mustache. And then that's your face. So, this is our brain, right? And what we're going to, so if we think about it, like our brain is kind of thinking about the future, right? What if What if What if What if So this is anxiety. Does that make sense? So fundamentally, this is our mind's ability to like look into the future. So what that means is that you know, if we think about it, like how does anxiety work? It is essentially our mind's predictive capability. So anxiety is actually a normal function of the mind, which is our predictive you know, kind of like danger like it's predictive and like danger oriented. Like that's what our mind has this capability that sort of looks into the future. And then, let's see if we can everybody, okay, come on. Do this. There we go. Okay. So our mind has this capability to look into the future and predict problems. And if we didn't have this capability, like we wouldn't be alive. So this is an evolutionary capability. So evolution helps us predict problems, okay? And so when our problem predicting capability gets out of our control, this is anxiety. So I want you guys to think about this for a second, okay? So we have our head. I'm just going to make a circle. And then it has all these functions, right? So danger prediction. Kind of reflecting on the past. Fantasy. Right? And that too is sort of future oriented. Has things like imagination. These are all the functions of the mind. Like there are more, but these are kind of what we'll talk about. So the interesting thing is that when these so generally speaking, what we want to do is we want to be in control of these functions of our mind. So, you know, I want to think about, okay, if I'm going to, you know, let's say COVID, the COVID quarantine is like going on in many places. So we want our mind to be able to look into the future and anticipate problems, right? So anticipate problems. And this is vital because like unless we know how to prepare for the future, like we're going to get screwed. So our mind kind of like I say, okay, so COVID is going on. What do I need to do? Like how do I prepare? So that's like a very healthy part of our mind. What anxiety is, is when this function of our mind actually like we lose control of it. So we don't get to decide when it operates. That's what anxiety is. So anxiety is problem anticipation out of control. Right? And if you think about it, that's what it really is. Like if I'm going to, if I have social anxiety, I'm going to create all these kinds of potential problems from my social interaction. You know, if I'm worried about my health, then I'm like I have a pain in my chest. My mind automatically goes to all these different thoughts about, oh, maybe I have a heart attack. Maybe I have cancer. Maybe I have this. Maybe I have that. And it's like problem anticipation, but just blown out of proportion. So this kind of comes back to, and I'm not going to, I'm going to just steer away from my earlier drawing. So this is the mind. So anxiety is future focused. Okay. So now what does this mean? So like, let's just think about this. Like, can you have anxiety about the past? Or is all anxiety focused in the future? Can you have any anxiety in the present? And some people will say, oh, you can't have anxiety in the past. Like I'm, I'm super anxious. And I think about last night, like I woke up this morning and I'm feeling super anxious because last night I went out with some friends and then I made a joke and then like six people laughed. But then it was sort of like directed at the seventh person because this is how anxiety works. Right? It's super complicated. And then you kind of notice that that seventh person laughed. Maybe they were offended. So isn't that thinking in the past? The answer is actually no, because what is anxiety really doing? It's thinking about a past event and it's thinking about the consequences in the future. Right? Even when you think about anxiety, like if you have anxiety about past events, if you really pause and study yourself, what you're really worried about is the future impact of your actions in the past. So anxiety is always anxiety is always future focused. So this is like piece of homework number one. Right? I encourage you to examine this point. So between now and tomorrow, I want you to think about every single anxious thought or like whenever you have an anxious thought and you can remember it, look at yourself and try to figure out, okay, am I worried about something in the present, the past or the future? And see if this is my assertion. You guys tell me if that's true or if that's false. Okay? So anxiety is essentially our future problem predicting capabilities. So can it exist in the past or can it exist in the present? Second thing that I want to note is that since anxiety is essentially a normal function gone wild, what is that, what are some of the implications of that? So the first is that the higher the IQ, the worse the anxiety. So just think about this for a second, okay? So if you have a function that predicts problems, the greater your analytical capability, the stronger your analytical capability, the greater chance there is that it's going to be able to predict more problems. And what this means is that if people try to fight against your anxiety and by people we're including yourself, the smarter you are, the stronger it is. So when you try, so a lot of times the response is reassurance. And what do I mean by that? People tell you, you say, oh, everyone thinks I'm a dumbass and then someone comes to you and says, oh no, man, like we all like you, we think you're a fantastic person. And the smarter you are, the stronger you are at knocking that away. You say, no, no, dude, like you really don't understand. And they make all these different arguments to try to convince you that you don't have anything to worry about that people like you. And then your anxiety is like, nah, I'm pretty sure I'm right about this. Because this is what I want you guys to understand is that this is actually a normal function of your mind. So if your mind is strong, if you're high level, then your stats are going to be high. And if anxiety takes control of you, then its stats are going to be high. I want you guys to think about in games, there are mind control mechanics, and you want to mind control the strongest enemy you can because then you're going to get the strongest ally. And anxiety is sort of like mind controlling your, it's taking control of your problem anticipation, your ability to predict problems, and it's kind of like using it against you. So the first thing to understand is that anxiety is not necessarily an illness. I mean, I think it certainly is an illness, but it's not an illness in the way that an infection like COVID is an illness. Right? It's not something that happens to you. It's actually a part of you that is malfunctioning. It's not external. So next thing to kind of think a little bit about is that most things in our brain are learned. And I want you guys to appreciate for a second that anxiety is usually learned. Okay? And what I mean by that is that, you know, if you're worried about social anxiety, there's usually a reason you're worried about that as opposed to health care anxiety or other kinds of things. So if we think about when does the mind, when does the predictive capability of the mind activate, it is to protect the mind from problems. So depending on what's happened to you in the past, your anxiety will manifest in different ways. So this is why people are anxious about different things. So the more that you talk to people with anxiety, the more you discover that like their anxiety traces back to like particular events. And that's a learned behavior because if you think about you know, if I'm worried about getting burned by a stove, why am I worried about getting burned by a stove? It's because I've been burned by a stove before. And the more recent the injury, the more likely I am to be worried about it. You know, if you are doing a lot of work, you know, if you are dating someone who breaks up with you and then two months later wants to get back together, your anxiety is going to be like what if they break up with me again? Like that comes from some injury that you've experienced. And that's the way that our brain works. Our brain, anytime we suffer or we take damage of some kind, our brain tries to learn from it and protect us. And the way that our brain tries to protect us is through anxiety. So it predicts problems. So this is kind of interesting because if we kind of like look at this, this is not necessarily, I mean, sure it causes us suffering and we'll kind of get to that for a second in a second, but I want you guys to first realize that your anxiety is a part of your mind that is actually like, you know, it's not something you need to get rid of, it's something that you need to tame. It's kind of like a horse that's gone out of control and is like walking around and you need to calm it down and help it do what it's supposed to do which is activate when you want it to activate. So let's just think a little bit about what anxiety looks like. What does anxiety look like? Okay. So anxiety usually manifests as thoughts about the future. And then anxiety also has a focus on the self. So what does that mean? So if you think about like, if you write down, and I encourage you guys to do this, so task number two is write down ten anxious thoughts. And we're actually going to switch gears for a second, so this is what I want you guys to do. His anxiety is something you can really switch on and off. We're going to see, right? Ah, very good. So we're going to get to the physical sensations in a second. So I want you guys, can someone just post an example of a, like in chat someone just give me an example of an anxious thought. Can I get an example? I don't know how much of a lag there is. No one likes me. Oh, perfect. What if I can't get a girlfriend? Beautiful. Okay. What if I can't get a girlfriend? Okay. Okay. Okay, will I be good enough? That's good, guys. Thank you very much. Will I be good enough to pass the test? Right? So I want you guys to notice a couple of things. The first is this. You can't have anxiety without I or me. Actually I mean you can. You can be anxious about other people, but generally speaking a lot of the anxiety that we experience is focused on the self. The second thing is that like what is the tense? What is the direction of these thoughts? So like will what if? So these are future oriented and these are focused on the self. Right? You guys see that? And this stuff can change. This stuff is actually kind of irrelevant. This is the important thing. So if we're talking about how anxiety works, like what is the nature of anxiety? Like how does it function in your mind? If we're opening up the hood this is the consistent part because this can be like completely random. Right? Will I... What if... And this stuff has to do with like specifically what your anxieties are about. And I want you guys to write down 10 anxious thoughts and just see what about this pattern applies and what doesn't. So throughout your day if you have an anxious thought just make a note of it and write it out. And I want you guys to understand that you can't say something like some people So some people are using words. Right? So they're saying getting replaced. Getting replaced is not an anxious thought. So you guys have to capture the full thought. Right? So Noah says getting replaced. So what I want you guys to think about that's not actually the thought that you have in your head. So train yourself because what the really thought is the real thought is what if I get replaced. That's the full thought. And part of this process of understanding and overcoming anxiety is to be clear and descriptive about what is going on in your mind. So as you can you know try to really capture the fullness of the thought. So the next thing to think about anxiety is there are thoughts. Right? So there are thoughts of anxiety and then there are also feelings. See Dr. K learned something. There are also feelings. So the feelings are like pain in your chest nausea butterflies headache sweaty palms shortness of breath. Right? Here are examples of physical sensations that come with anxiety. So the first thing to understand is that anxiety has cognitive and physical physical manifestations. So these are fundamentally different. Right? And you guys have to understand that like notice both of these things and sometimes you have an anxious thought without the sensations and sometimes you have the sensations without a thought. So we're going to get to how to deal with each of these because the pathway is a little bit different. Okay? So now what do we do with this? So there are thoughts and there are physical sensations. So the other thing that I... So now what we're going to talk about is like what is your mind... How do these thoughts that we have how does anxiety affect our mind? So I know this is kind of a weird kind of question, right? Like we don't really think about we think like, oh I'm anxious and that's sort of like I want to stop being anxious. But let's try to figure out like that's not actually that's not sufficient. If we really want to understand anxiety we have to think a little bit about what is the implication or what is happening in our mind when I have an anxious thought. So how does anxiety affect our mind? So the first thing is that anxious thoughts are circular. Okay? So I want you guys to just think about that. So anxious thoughts lead to more thoughts which lead to more thoughts which lead to more thoughts and then we kind of end up where we started. You guys agree? So this is called rumination. And this is actually a hijacking of something called like our problem solving thought process, right? So problem thinking solution and then so let's say anxiety relaxation right? And then actually decrease in thought. So I want you guys to look at these two things. So this is problem solving. Let me try to fix this, okay? And then let's move that up a little bit. Move that back over here. Okay? So let's just think about that, right? This is rumination and this is anxiety. And this is problem solving. So do you guys see the difference between the do you guys see kind of the difference between like these two processes? So this one is productive and both of them start from the same place. Like they start with anxiety, right? Like you're worried about something. But one is a productive problem solving process and the other is kind of like a self-fueling process. So we can think about problem solving is thinking through things, right? You start at point A and you go to point Z and then anxious thinking is you start at point A and then you end up at point A. So you never get anywhere. So what this means is that if we think about this, like anxiety is exhausting because it doesn't stop and problem solving is relaxing because you kind of like think through things and then you feel good about yourself. So anxiety sort of exhausts when we think about how does anxiety affect the mind. The first thing that it does is it's circular and it ends up exhausting the mind. And so if we think about how do people cope so what are the coping mechanisms for anxiety? Right? So it's stuff that what is the main coping mechanism of the anxiety is to shut off thoughts or mind. So good examples of this are sleep gaming drugs right? There are things that essentially try to shut off our thoughts because this is not getting anywhere right? It's not like it's not doing anything for us. So it's circular. And so the only generally speaking the solution that we have to anxiety is to shut off our you know you know turn off the mind or shut off our thoughts. The problem is that what happens so if we do this what happens when the mind turns back on? Right? This is the real problem. So let's say you start playing video games like you're worried oh am I going to fail out of class? Am I prepared for the test? That feeling is exhausting. You guys are thinking about that for a while. And then you're like oh I can't take this anymore. I'm exhausted. I don't feel good. You start to play a video game and then it's relief. It's sweet sweet relief. And then after you play the video game then you know as you turn off the video game like what happens? The anxious feelings come back. You're just back to square one. You're right back here. Because you're not actually solving any problems. Okay? So the second thing to understand is that so if we think about this this so this process if we think about problem solving leads to a decrease in thought. Anxiety leads to an increase in thought. So this is what I want you guys to kind of think a little bit about. Okay? So what happens when we increase thought versus decrease thought? So this is our mind. And there are some things that we do that sort of increase our thoughts and some things that we do that decrease our thoughts. Okay? So what this essentially means is that when we feed the mind we increase thoughts. And when we essentially starve the mind we decrease thoughts. And what do I mean by this? It's kind of like when you when you have an anxious thought that anxious thought starts to breed. Right? It's like oh my god this person doesn't like me and then this is gonna happen and then this is gonna happen and then this is gonna happen so what that looks like is anxious thought right? So let's say anxious thought number one. And then and then and then that leads to number two which leads to number three and then one thought leads to another leads to another. Right? So what we're doing is we're actually creating more and more thoughts. The other thing that happens is like sometimes when people have anxiety they try to argue. So this is mechanism number two. So you try to tell yourself against the thoughts. And this can be yourself or other people. Okay? And so as you argue against the thoughts what happens? The thoughts just grow. It leads to thought number four number four, number five and number six. Right? So do you guys see how like trying to argue against the thoughts if we look at the mechanism of mind we see that arguing against your thoughts actually does not work and in fact makes your anxiety worse. Right? This is the same problem. It's all the same thing. So then the question becomes what do we do about that? So like if this is if we assume that thoughts kind of breed other thoughts or we assume that conflict within the mind so the other way to describe this is tension. Actually that's not this but that's so this process here is tension. So this creates tension in the mind. When you try to argue against yourself you get yourself riled up and the more tension you create the more active the mind becomes. So if we think about this you know how do we how does the mind come up with the right word for this? What makes the mind grow? Right? So we're talking about feeding. So tension makes the mind grow. Number one. So this can also include these are essentially synonyms but conflict. What else makes the mind grow? Excitement. Things like fantasy. So I want you guys to think about a daydream. A daydream is one thought leading to another thought leading to another thought leading to another thought and the mind loves this. And so if we think about the active mind an active mind is not really relaxed. When you think about fantasy your mind isn't relaxed. It's super excited. It's active super super active. When you're in tension when you're in conflict when you're in worry your mind is not relaxed. And what does a relaxed mind mean? I posit to you guys that a relaxed mind has fewer thoughts. So if you think about like when is your mind relaxed? Okay? So when does this happen? So the first thing is that if we do this right if we find a solution that leads to relaxation then you don't have to worry about anymore. The amount of thoughts once you come up with a good solution and by a good solution I don't mean a fictional or fantasy solution I mean an actual solution that calms you down. Leads to a decrease in thought. So when does this happen? Solution. Number two sunset. Number three shavasana. Okay? That's that last pose that we did after the yoga. Like how active was your mind? Number four meditation. Number five eating a cookie with full awareness. Right? So let me ask you guys something. What time frame are these things focused in? Where are you? Are you in the past, the present or the future? Cookie cleanse absolutely present. Right? So I want you guys to think about this. If, just think about this for a second okay? If anxiety is literally like the definition of anxiety is to have thoughts in the future, can anxiety exist if your mind is in the present? We're thinking about cognitive anxiety okay? Literally can anxiety exist if we're focused in the present? Does shower thoughts count as a relaxed mind? Absolutely, Asri. Can't I add gaming to the list? Absolutely. Absolutely. So I want you guys to think about this right? So now we're going to talk let's talk about gaming. This sounds crazy. So when are games fun and when are games less fun? So when you're fully engaged, so I started playing this game called Deep Rock Galactic which I think is amazing. So like yesterday there's this thing where you have a timer and like a timer counts down you have to like get on a ship before the timer runs out. And like we were playing this game and like yesterday the timer was ticking down and we had like six seconds left and we weren't sure if we were going to make it. And in that moment my mind was thinking about nothing except this moment. And it was like I started cheering it was 1130 at night I started cheering after we made it because one of us made it and so the mission was successful. And my wife was like you're being really loud. So there are times when gaming makes us live as crazy as it sounds in the present. And I want you all to understand this. If gaming did not do this this would not work. Right? So if we think about sleep, drugs, gaming they're able to bring us to something like the present. When is gaming less fun? When we're thinking about the future in the game. If I'm playing a game of League of Legends or Dota and I have someone who's feeding why is that not fun? It's because I'm thinking about the next five minutes. I'm not thinking about now I'm thinking about oh god their ADC or their carry is getting fed. We're going to lose. Or my so and so is a retard. We're going to lose. We're going to lose. We're going to lose. We're going to lose. I'm going to have to sit. Let's look at it. I'm going to have to sit in this game for 30 minutes. Okay guys let's look for where is where are the important words? Give you guys a little hint. Let's go back and examine our anxiety words. Wait where did I go? Here we go. Right? So what are the important words? Future oriented and self. Do we see those here? Future oriented and self to this crap doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. This is unhappiness of the mind. So in gaming it's actually a beautiful example. Because actually if you think about you know if you think about like meeting the deadline in Deep Rock Galactic. If you don't think you're going to make it then that is actually anxiety provoking. But there are times there are times when you're playing a video game where your mind is fully focused in the present. You're not actually worried about making it. You're trying to make it. So I want you guys to notice this difference. Worrying about winning and trying to win. What's the difference here? Where are we with this one? What's the time? Where are we when we're worrying about winning? What do you guys think? So let's do another poll. Oh sorry cancel. What time frame are you in when you are worrying about winning? Past, present, here. You guys tell me. Right? Beautiful. So let's do another one. Okay. Looks like I can't do another one yet. Oh I can't how do I show poll results? Okay so it's like 95% to 4%. When where is the time frame of your mind when you are trying to win? Past, present. You guys can't see the poll? Interesting. I'm going to have to learn how to do that. I'm going to play a result at the end of the poll. I see. Okay. Fixed, fixed, saved. See look at that. Just think about that for a second. When you're trying to win a game it's a lot of fun. When you're worried about losing it sucks. Even when you know you've won how fun is that game? That's the next question right? So let's ask that one. So Okay. So now we're going to do one more. Okay. What's more fun? Trying to win a game or knowing that you've basically won? Trying to win knowing you've won. Won. Let's see this one. Okay. See if there's some amount. What do you guys think is more fun? Now, interesting huh? Now I think the interesting thing about knowing you've won is that a lot of times our games have certain outcomes that we want. Right? Like we're grinding towards something. And even if you're grinding towards something that grinding can be somewhat present focused. Which is like, it's kind of weird and you really have to look at that. Because in that moment the grind is like what you're doing and that's why you want to win because you want the outcome. But even in that moment you're kind of present within the frame of grinding which is complicated. But right? So there is a little bit more grinding is in the present, right? Grinding, ING. So now let's try to kind of wrap things up and see what we've learned. Okay? So we haven't really gotten a chance to talk about physical anxiety. That's the first thing. But hopefully I've convinced you guys that anxiety, first of all, so let's go through a conclusion. Number one. Anxiety is a normal part of the mind gone actually let's just go with this. I like this. Okay? Number one. Number two. Anxiety has two components. A cognitive component and a physical component. Okay? So we haven't really talked much about physical anxiety today which is okay. We'll get to that. Number three is that anxiety is future focused. And oftentimes has rumination or unproductive thinking and grows with tension. Okay? So now my question to you guys is what do we do about this? So four, let's think about the structure Wow, my handwriting is bad. Dr. K is going to take a handwriting course. Structure of the anxious thought which is I, me plus future plus specific content based on your past experience. So I want you guys to notice this for a second. A lot of times when psychiatrists or therapists try to help someone with their anxiety, what they actually focus on is this. Right? Oh, tell me about why you're worried about social anxiety. Like just think about this for a second. We have social anxiety is a different diagnosis from let's say a phobia or a different kind of anxiety. Health anxiety, social anxiety. Western medicine focuses on different kinds of content and classifies these anxieties differently. Right? Do you guys see that? This is where Western psychiatry or Western medicine focus on. What I want you guys to focus on, what the yogis focus on is these two. They focus on these. Because the cool thing is that you can fix someone's social anxiety and then they'll still have health anxiety or they'll still have imposter syndrome or any number of other things, a phobia. The phobias are a little bit different to be honest but that's actually not a good example. So the nature of a phobia and the content of a phobia is actually different from anxiety. Okay, so imposter syndrome. So like even if we check this off the list we still have to do these, right? This is what Western medicine does. So now I'm going to ask you guys what is the solution to this? How do we fix this? One One, bring mind to present. Okay? Second is don't feed the mind. So what that means is don't argue. Don't even go for reassurance. No argument no reassurance. Because our mind rebels against that, right? So we want to avoid these. And we'll talk a little bit practically about how to do that in the future. The second thing, so I want you guys to see this for a second. So one is to bring the mind to the present. So if you do something like yoga or you do some centering activity, like this is how meditation helps anxiety. Because meditation brings your mind to the present, that's what meditation is. And therefore you can't be anxious. Number two, this is the next thing, is to get rid, decrease the ego. This is the real answer to anxiety. I want you guys to think about this. So this is the self. Right? So do you guys get anxious about things that are like like how much of your anxiety has to do with you? If you can remove you from the equation, then how much, how powerful is your anxiety? I'll give you guys an example. So let's say that I go to class and I start to say something and then I'm afraid that these people are going to think that I'm an idiot. And let's say that you're in a room of random strangers who you're never going to see again. Are you less likely to speak with the strangers or more likely to speak with the strangers? Right? So if you can remove your sense of self from the equation, if you don't have to worry about your ego and what people are going to think about you, then your anxiety goes down. Right? Okay, so let's think about this. Let me, okay, if you guys want to poll it, that's fine, let's poll it. Let's do this, okay? Are you more worried about looking stupid in front of people you're going to see again or people who you will never see again? Alright, poll it, let's see. No. Got to hit another button. Ah! Excellent question to poll. See? So this gets tricky. We can explore it further. Right? So like, do you feel more comfortable when you're, so here's the other way to put it. So to think about the ego is do you feel more comfortable when you're anonymous? Right? Why do people with social anxiety function better on the internet and behind computer screens and away from other people? It's because they can protect, they can isolate their ego or sense of self. This is why anonymity, this is why anonymity is protective. So the other thing that you can do is you can, so one way, anonymity is a way to like cover the self, but the other thing that you can do is you can sort of start to dissolve the ego. Right? And the way that you dissolve the ego, this is when we talk about meditation, we're going to have a whole day on ego or more than one day. You can do a whole semester on ego if you want to. But basically like I want you guys to think about someone who's confident is someone who is less likely to be influenced by the opinion of others. And so they actually, their ego goes down and as their ego goes down they're less anxious. Because the opinions of other people don't kind of matter to them. So in terms of what to do about it, this is the first thing that I want you guys to focus on. Is if you can bring your mind to the present, literally anxiety cannot exist. Physical anxiety is different, I'm talking about cognitive anxiety. So if your mind is in the present you cannot be anxious. That is like a fact. And I encourage you guys, so in my opinion it's not a fact, it's my opinion. And I encourage you guys to be more conscious and see for yourself whether you can be anxious while you are in the present. And if you are in the present, because we think about it this way, so remember that being in the present is this, is what we kind of call like all this stuff is relaxing. You guys see that? Anything that is present is going to be relaxing and can you be anxious while you're relaxed? It's kind of like an oxymoron. So I want you guys to focus on the present. So I encourage you guys to examine this. And let's even think about eating a cookie. So if I eat a cookie and I can just sit and enjoy the cookie then it's fine. If I eat a cookie and I'm worried about gaining weight and that this is going to make me look fat then it's not fun. Take whatever example you want to, look at yourselves, examine yourself, see what you discover. We're going to do questions. Okay, so let's start with I don't know how to specify people but we're going to actually start with questions about how we're going to do. Okay, let's do questions. So Raymond, we're going to start with you buddy. Let's see if this works. I've clicked a checkbox. Okay, so one of the pieces of feedback that we got is that we want one question at a time. Alright Raymond. Talk to me buddy. Hello? Okay. Alright. I'm going to, Felipe, Rico, and Juan teed you guys up for questions. Because I don't hear Raymond. Ah. Okay. Oh I see. I see that there's a button for audio. Got it. Hey Raymond. Oh I can't hear Raymond. I can't hear you buddy. Raymond you have to turn the microphone button on on the top. Somebody is speaking. It's not. You, ah, alright. Alright, who's speaking? Do you have a question? Me, yeah. Hello. Hey Felipe. Yeah, hi. So when we were talking before, sorry I had stuff written down, you talked about the first two parts about that, sorry my webcam messed up. We were talking about the I, the I will, and then we were talking about the part where we're thinking about in the future. And you said that we didn't want to seek reassurance about our thoughts because we'd be fighting against that and create more thoughts. But, um, how do I fix my assumption about like for example when we were talking about all of this I was thinking about a situation about me thinking that my roommate doesn't like me as much as the other roommates. And if I don't get reassurance that my roommate likes me as much, which I think is probably true, I'm just being very anxious about it. How do I um, fix the anxiety if I don't get reassurance about it? So let me ask you something, when you get reassurance about it what does it do to your anxiety? Oh my god my webcam's messing up. But um, when I get reassurance about it, logically it would help my anxiety because if she says that I- That's not what I'm asking you. I'm asking you what does it do to your anxiety. What it does to my anxiety is it probably creates more thoughts? No, I'm asking you so when, so you're concerned that your roommate doesn't like you. Yeah. You sought reassurance about this in the past. No, this is just the thing that came up today, so that's why I was relating about it when I was listening to the rest of the talk. Okay, have you been anxious about something before? Yes. And what when someone reassures you what does that do to your anxiety? Um, it depends on the situation I guess. In a lot of cases my anxiety doesn't believe them and then I think about reasons why they're maybe to be telling me this to make me feel better and it becomes a big thought loop. Yep. But I guess it depends on the situation as well. I don't think that's a universal thing across anxiety. So give me an example of where reassurance helps you. Like in this roommate case I feel like that would help Not one that could happen. One that has happened. Um maybe me going to a lecture or talking about a grade and saying I'm not, I, um I'm anxious about this exam because I don't think I'm prepared enough and I talk to the lecturer and the lecturer then explains to me about how according to him I have been prepared and then talks me through all of that and that maybe helps me. Has that helped you in the past? Yes. Okay. So I think that that is different because what that, so I know this sounds crazy but when we say reassurance I want you to understand that reassurance is not what the outside world gives you because in both cases you're saying that someone from the outside tries to reassure you, right? Yeah. Someone says okay, you're going to do fine on the test and someone else says okay you're actually a really smart person. Even though the signals from the outside are exactly the same, in one case it fuels your anxiety and in another case it doesn't fuel your anxiety. Yeah. Does that make sense? So the first thing that we need to understand is that that has nothing to do with the outside because if the outside is giving us the same thing and our response is differential that's not coming from the outside, it's coming from here. That makes a lot of sense. Right? So then the question is what is different in here? And I think in some cases what's different is the way that your mind responds. Okay. This makes sense because it can be like your confidence that is different as well because if I'm not confid- like if inside maybe I do think I'm smart and I do think I do well on a test and I am more confident about that, then when I hear the reassurance it will help me confirm maybe my own thoughts that I was- like confirm my confidence but then when other situations maybe if I'm internally not confident and my ego is going to be damaged maybe if a girl doesn't like me or something, then it will- it won't actually help because my ego will be fighting against it. So I think that that's possible so what I would encourage you to do, Felipe is to examine this. The main thing- so remember we're not talking about I mean we're talking about individual situations as examples to understand principles. What we're talking about today is not solving for the equation of a particular line. We're trying to figure out Y equals Mx plus B. We're trying to figure out what are the variables and I'm telling you that if two people in separate situations give you reassurance and in one that helps your anxiety and in another it doesn't help your anxiety it doesn't have anything to do with the outside it has to do with the inside. The next thing is I want you to think about remember that there are two problem solving routes, right? One is anxiety, what's the other one? I mean, sort of set it up. Do you remember the two diagrams? Well, the- oh yeah one is the problem solving so it goes from like you have the problem and you have a solution and then there's anxiety thought loop. Right, so the question is when you sit down with a professor which mode of operation does your mind move into? Okay, I'm going to the problem solving. So you have to tell me. Don't hypothesize don't give me logic go and study it because I think what your professor does is walks you through the problem solving group which then relaxes the mind. Okay. Great question. Okay, no worries. Thank you so much. Alright, let's see if we've got Raymond. I'm going to give you the boot, okay? No worries, bye. Raymond? No? Juan? Nope. Sorry buddy. Okay, we're going to invite a couple more people. I know you guys say one person at a time but like because of these technical difficulties. Can you hear me? Yep. Who is that? This is Juan. Okay, I'm going to invite Reese someone else and Victor. Just while we've got Juan on the question. Go ahead Juan. Okay, so my question is kind of big kind of philosophical but I feel like this affects my anxiety, my motivation pretty much everything about myself. How do I deal with pessimism and challenging big world views like sorry I'm a little nervous like biological determinism like being afraid that I'm incapable of change. Okay, so once again I'm not going to answer the content of your question because like you said that's a big question and instead what I'm going to do is we're going to look at the mechanism of your question. Okay? So let's start by um hold on a second okay let's try to examine your thoughts. So tell me a little bit more about what is that I don't understand what you mean. What don't you understand? Like you say like I have this philosophical something rather can you say that again? I don't know what that means. So what do you mean by pessimism? That I am incapable of change, I'm incapable of overcoming my anxiety. I am incapable of change. Right? So let's think about what is the tense of your statement? Um incorrect. Hmm. Oh I suppose I'm incapable of change in the future. Exactly, right? So now we have to be tricky. We have to be careful because the mind is tricky and just because you're using a verb in the present tense does not mean that this is in the present tense. Right? Are you sitting there and you're saying I'm incapable of change? That's not what you're saying. What you're really, I think what this really is, is I'm afraid I'm never going to change. What do you think? Is that the one? That's correct. Because here's the thing, I know this is going to sound crazy, but so sometimes I work with patients with cancer, really fascinating in terms of understanding the mind. So I'm going to die. How do you think this person feels when a terminal cancer patient understands that they're going to die? How do you think they feel? Well, I guess it depends on how they feel about death, right? So they could be accepting? They could be scared? Sure. So I know this is going to sound crazy, but what is the tense of this statement? Future? Incorrect. I know it sounds bizarre, but it's not because this looks like a future statement, right? So I guess I need to explain a little bit. So sometimes I talk to a cancer patient who recognizes and accepts that death is inevitable for them. And bizarrely, when they recognize that truth, that is a truth that comes from the present. It's not actually like a fear of the future, it's not even a fear of the future. It's like an acceptance in the now that death is inevitable. Does that make sense? And bizarrely, this leads to peace. It's bizarre. It's the weirdest thing. But when someone accepts in the present that some action is inevitable, they actually relax because that boat has sailed. You can lament it, you can grieve, so they're going to grieve, but underneath it all, there's still peace. It's bizarre. So that's sort of a random aside. I don't know exactly, hopefully that was helpful for people. I felt like that was significant, I'm not exactly sure why. So let's go back to this, okay? So now you tell me and it's, is it Juan? Yes, correct. So Juan, so when you say like, what do we do about this? You tell me, like what are our solutions? Right, so like you say like, I'm never going to change. You also said some other stuff about the planet, right? Yeah, like well, I mean, I believe that everything in the universe is biologically determined. Okay, biological determinism. Fine, what else? What other kind of pessimistic thoughts do you have? I mean, I think it all really stems from there. Okay, sure. So, so, okay, sure. So, you know, when in the purpose, for the purpose of this seminar, you know, what we're going to do is we're going to take this and we don't actually care about that. We don't care about that either. What are you going to do? So what do you do? About fear? Sure, in general, like how should you approach this problem? Right, because like you get that if I start talking to you about biological determinism, this is going to be intellectual masturbation for an hour and you're not going to get anywhere. Does that make sense? Because you've done it before. Does that make sense? Right, and doing that hasn't helped me, obviously. Exactly. So that's not where your answer lies. And this is bizarre because like I said, in psychiatry, we focus on the content of the mind and in general, we think that solutions are external and like content based. Like I don't know how else to say that. Like it's kind of a weird statement. I don't even know how many people are going to understand it, but like we think that the solution to climate change is in the outside world, which obviously it is, but also like anxiety about climate change can somewhat come from the outside world, but also like I want you to think about this. If you're worried about climate change, you can act like I can go outside and plant a tree every day, but that person is not living in the future. That person is living in the present. They're addressing the problem of climate change even though they don't know if it's going to work. They don't know if it's enough or the corporations will screw them or whatever. They're going out every day and they're planting a tree. They're doing their part. There's immense peace in that and there's immense problem solving in that. Does that make sense? Yeah, totally. What am I doing now? Exactly. So that is what I'm saying is that irrespective of what the problem is, you know, it's not that a particular solution because someone can be worried about climate change and they can be worried about corporate pollution, so they can be worried about cruise ships or you know, like carbon moving to renewable energy or like, you know, hitting a tipping point of greenhouse gases or like, you know, sea levels rising or like all kinds of stuff. You can be focused on all that crap. All that crap can be anxiety provoking. You can also get data that's reassuring and those people's anxieties will still remain. Do you see that? Like it's just like what Felipe was saying about the external world can give you reassurance and you can just say screw that reassurance, I'm not interested. So I'm asking you, where does your solution lie? Yeah, dealing with that fear, dealing with that anxiety. Incorrect. Dealing with that fear is wrong. Right? That fear is this. Do you understand that? That fear is a specific fear. It's actually incorrect. Sorry to say so. I'm being a little bit blunt with you, by the way. So where's our solution been? What have we been focusing on? What words? Being in the present? Yes, right? So, in the present. So when you worry about biological determinism, what are you worried about? Like is, determinism is about the past, present or future? The future. Absolutely. And then the other thing is I. Right? You feel like I'm incapable. So I think what you need to work on is I and being in the present. Because determinism is like I'm going to be screwed down the road. Like there's nothing I can do about it. Right. Fine. So then what are you going to do today? Like forget about the future. What are you going to do today? Juan? Try to make changes. What are you going to change today? Um. What I think about where I'm thinking in the present or How do you do that? I'm asking you literally what are you going to do today? So what part of the world are you in? I'm in Washington. Okay. So you're in Washington. So it's like what? Like, uh, 8.30 in the morning for you? Yup. So what are you going to do after the webinar ends? Uh, I was thinking about meditating. Okay. And after meditation what are you going to do? Um, I was going to write a to-do list. Okay. And then after that what are you going to do? Uh, maybe do a little study. Are you going to study or not study? Um, I'm going to study. Okay. So what about biological determinism? What does biological, like what does biological determinism have to do about anything that you just said? Uh, well I think it has everything to do with it. Why? I mean, because there are certain factors in my life based on past experiences that bring me to carry out these actions. I disagree. So you're telling me that you're going to meditate. Like, I don't see how biological determinism has anything to do with meditation. I don't see how biological determinism has anything to do with writing a task list. I don't see how biological determinism has anything to do with actually sitting down and cracking a textbook. In a sense, obviously it does because when you study you're going to have a particular IQ and depending on your IQ and depending on XYZ and depending on ABC, the results of your study, studying will be different. And if you want to say that biological determinism has something to do with the results of your actions, by all means. If I say that I'm going to jump, if I'm going to stand up and jump up and down after I'm done with this webinar, biological determinism determines how high I jump. But it has nothing to do with whether I jump or whether I don't jump. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes sense, but I feel I feel differently. I understand that. So you need to start trying it this way and see what happens. Because I don't think that biological determinism has anything to do with making a to-do list. It just feels so far-fetched to me. Okay, let's actually, let's do this. Okay. Let's see. So we're going to do a poll. Does biological determinism have anything to do with making a to-do list? I know it's not so ridiculous. I know it's not so ridiculous. Let's find out. Now I think the real question here is how hard am I about to get trolled? I don't know. Oh damn. Alrighty. So I know you feel that way. I'm not telling you to feel a different way. What I'm telling you to do is collect data. Yeah. So I can't think you through to this solution. I want you to just stop and just like do the things that you're saying you're going to do in the moment. So meditate, make a to-do list, and crack open a textbook or whatever you have to do to study. Take those three actions. And do that a couple more times, a couple more times, a couple more times. And are you incapable of change? I have no fucking idea. Maybe you're going to change, maybe you won't. I don't think that change is actually a thing. Change is impossible. Change is literally a fiction of the mind. That is philosophy too, which we can intellectually masturbate about. But I want you to do these things and I think that your answer still remains here and here. And as long as you're working over here, like nothing is going to happen. Yeah. If you start acting, because action happens in the present. If you start predicting the consequences of your actions, that's biological determinism. Whether I jump or not is not biological determinism. How high I jump is biological determinism. Those are two entirely different things. But action happens in the present. Consequences of action happens in the future. It's a really, really difficult concept because it's so simple and the mind does not like it. The other thing is, you know, you say that I am incapable. So like, where do you get your sense of I? And I would guess that it comes from your mind instead of like other kinds of experiences. So I would guess that it comes from your mind instead of like other kinds of experiences. So this is the other thing is we can think about confidence and stuff like that. If you wake up and you focus on the action day after day and you check things off your to-do list, generally speaking your feeling about yourself would change. Yeah. But you can't understand that until you do it. So focus on what you're going to do after the webinar and good luck, buddy. Give you the boot, okay? Sure, thanks. Alright, one more question. And I invited some people, why haven't they shown up? Okay, we're going to do Vlad, Iman, Bonnie, and Max. And Raymond, buddy, we're giving you the boot too. Unless you can speak now. Speak now or forever hold your piece. Yeah, I mean, I just read some comments. I'm not trying to be I'm not trying to be I mean, I realize I come across as arrogant but it's really a pressure of time, right? So you guys watch Twitch streaming and like I have a lot of I have a lot of experience with Twitch streaming. So I'm not trying to be I'm not trying to be like, I have time with people to walk them through things in Twitch stream, right? So like here I'm a little bit more of you know I'm like, no, that's incorrect because we don't have time to walk you through it, right? Let's just get to the right answer. So I apologize if I'm hurting anyone's feelings. It's really not my intent. I wish I had another hour to explain that's why we started with Twitch stream so we could have like an hour to take someone like Juan and talk him through his ideas of biological determinism in the present and stuff like that. Yeah, we're still streaming in a couple of hours. Okay, I don't know why we can't get anyone else. Okay. Oh, Max has joined the room. Beautiful Max. Raymond has left the room. What is the consensus behind determinism? I have no idea. Yeah, we're going to do Dharma. I'm trying to decide between talking about procrastination, Dharma, meditation or dealing with COVID in isolation and how to talk to people who you're isolated with. It's tricky. Okay, let's do that. Let's do a poll while we're waiting. Okay, so I'm going to start with a poll while we're waiting. I invited like a bunch of people. Max, are you Zeevadar, Victor, Sam? We're going to get one more question. Let's poll. Can you hear me? Yup. What's your question, buddy? Thanks for doing this, man. I've been watching all your stuff for probably a few months now. And I love it. And thank you for the yoga this morning too. So, I used to be in the military and I got out in 2017. And I'm currently a student, but I feel like I'm really struggling with the identity portion and it's kind of like preventing me from being present at all times. And I also have a lot of anxiety about because I'm trying to career change. And I just have a mountain of things that are causing anxiety. I'm not going to be able to pass college or I'm not going to be able to right now I'm fearing that I'm going to fail this class or like and the next one's going to be like I'm applying to jobs and everybody's you know, nobody's hiring me. So am I going to have my next career? So it's just like it can be really hard to like be present when you're having all those thoughts. And I want to know like can I center in on like a new identity for myself? Because I was from 18 to 32 now. 30 years old I was always a military guy and that was my identity. And now my kind of world is like completely dissolved kind of. Yeah, so you know Max, I think my answer may be a little bit unsatisfying to you but I'll do the best that I can in the time that we have left, okay? So the first thing is that you know I think this is why, this is exactly why I structured this talk on anxiety in this way. Because here's the basic problem is that when you look at your anxiety you say I'm worried about X, Y, Z, I'm worried about ABC, I'm worried about DEF. Other people are worried about GHI. People are worried about all kinds of things. You're worried about are you going to be able to find a job? Are you going to be able to like land in this new world with this new identity? You know those are all of the questions that you have. And the reason that I think that talking about the process of how anxiety works is because the content actually doesn't matter. Because if you can learn how to be in the present and you can focus on dissolving your ego, which we can talk more about, then it doesn't matter what's on the other side of the equation. It doesn't matter what you're actually anxious about because you can literally learn how to turn off your anxiety and like function on that day. And I think that's ultimately what you have to do. Because the other thing to think about is that you don't have the capability and I know this sounds bizarre. You don't have the capability of actually determining whether you're going to be successful in the world or not. What do you think about that? Yeah, I feel like that's probably true. So tell me what you are what is yours to control and what is not yours to control? My actions. I can control my actions. And what can you not control? The results of those actions. Okay, so you're afraid that you're not going to be able to make the transition to a civilian. Right? Yeah, and have a second career. And have a second career. Can you control whether you have a second career or not? How does that make you feel? Well, I really value the ability, you know, I love working. I love working in the military. I really I guess I wouldn't I feel like it would be not living up to potential type of deal. If I didn't get another job or a career. Sure, right? So I want you to notice those are therein lies the problem. So there's a part of you that worries about living up to your potential. So I'll tell you another thing. Potential is false. It's a false concept of the mind. So I want you guys to think about this for a second, okay? So what exists? I know it's kind of a weird question. What exists? Yes. I don't know, our present mind and body? Absolutely. Perfectly correct. So potential is not a real thing, right? The only thing that exists is reality. And reality is now. Right now, if I were to ask you if I were to take a measurement anywhere in the world of anything, that measurement could only be taken in the present. Does that make sense? The only thing that we can measure is this. This world. This moment. This reality. And so you're getting caught up about the future and you're worried about not living up to your potential, whereas you actually have no control over what your potential is. Potential is a falsity. The only thing that exists is what is. Right. So when it comes to having a successful career, I hate to break it to you, buddy. That is not your choice and that is not something you can control. What you can control is going back to school. So you said you're a student, right? Yes. So that I think is wonderful. Because you're actually... Being online though, it's very hard to have that identity though. For me, I have to be around people that share the same mindset and goals. So I was thinking about this yesterday. Maybe I just need to force myself to get on campus more, even though I'm pretty much 100% online. Well, I am now because of coronavirus, but I'm always 100% online. But I mean, I live right down the road from the campus. So I want you to just notice the tense of that statement, right? So you say, like, I need to be around people who share a common goal with me. That's not about future or present, I mean, or past. It's about present. That's just an attribute of who you are. That is part of your identity. Your identity is not military or student. Your identity is like human being who enjoys sharing in goals with other human beings. Yes, I feel like that's true. Yeah, and so as long as you're not living in alignment to that, you're going to feel like you don't even have an identity. It's not that you don't have an identity, it's that you're not aligned with who you are. And as long as you're not doing something that's aligned with who you are, like if you're an artist and someone sticks you in an accounting firm, you're going to feel like you don't know what your identity is, even though you know what your identity is, you're just not aligned with it. So I think you need to live a life that is aligned with who you are, and I think you know more about who you are than you realize. And who you are is not determined by your profession. It's not determined by your career. Career is just like something that you slap on your resume and it's a way that hopefully money gets into your bank account. So there's a difference between being a graphic designer and being someone who creates things that are cool to look at. Like one is a job, and one is like who you are. So in my case, like I'm someone who talks with people and tries to help them. That's who I am. You guys can call it whatever you want to. I could have been a priest, I could have been a psychiatrist, I could have been whatever. Doesn't matter. Like am I a psychiatrist right now? Not really. No, you're talking to me. Yeah. That's who I am. And who are you right now? Yeah, I'm realizing that I just need to align with who you are. Who are you right now? I'm talking to you right now. Yeah, that's it. That's all you are. Yeah. Right? So what I see is someone who wants to be a better person. Someone who wants to understand themselves. And someone who wants to live a life that is like aligned with who they are. That you're striving towards growth. You're striving towards, in a bizarre way, being who you are, which is sort of growth, but is also not growth. And that's where we get into like Zen paradoxes. And that you also have noticed a couple of things that like you need to be around other people. And I'm sure there are all kinds of reasonable reasons why your sense of identity is under assault. Because you're in undergrad? Yes. You're a 30 year old in undergrad. That's not easy. No. You will be surprised by how amazing it is once you get used to it. Yes. I've noticed I've become a better student in the last two years. And then you will begin to realize that you have advantages over these children. Yeah. Right? Like you'll realize they're kids. Like they actually haven't lived life yet. And you've lived some of life. And try to take some comfort in that. But I think overall it still comes down to taking actions in the present. And I think that sounds like you've figured out kind of who you are. And I think your sense of identity. This is the thing. Your sense of identity once again is like the content side of things. We don't need to address that. You just need to start going to campus and hanging out with people and things like that. And your sense of identity will become like less important. It's bizarre. Your anxieties will just like literally like start to melt away. It's the weirdest thing in the world. But when I work with people in this way, they're like, yeah, it just doesn't bother. I'm like, I'm going to check in with them because we'll talk about spirituality and meditation stuff. And then I'm like, by the way, how's your anxiety? Are you still worried about X, Y, Z? And they're like, it just doesn't bother me as much. It's weird. So when you start to focus on the ego and you start to focus on the present, you literally remove food and drink and sustenance for your anxiety. You don't fix your anxiety. And that's what's so fucking confusing to everyone. Everyone's like, but what about my sense of identity? What about my sense of biological determinism? What about this? X, Y, Z? What about my nose? What about my hair? What about my weight? What about that? And I'm like, yeah, I don't really care. Doesn't matter. It's just all of that stuff feeds. Your mind feeds off of the thoughts of others. And just think about this for a second. Your anxiety is like addictive. Does that make any sense to you? Yeah, well, it's very... I go into cycles, like you said, I go into cycles and it can be very dark. It can get very dark. And your mind, even though you suffer, your mind loves to be in that place. Yes. It's like a kid in a candy store. It's like thoughts, thoughts, thoughts, thoughts, thoughts. And think about what does the mind hate? The mind hates no thoughts. And this is why boredom is so hard for us. We hate the mind. The thing that we hate the most is boredom. Because boredom is a place with no stimulation and with no stimulation, thoughts are hard to come up with. And then the mind starts to die if it has no thoughts. So when you're bored, your mind starts to wander. It grasps. I want you guys to really think about this for a second. When you're bored, your mind is like a starving something. And it's gasping for air. It's thinking this thought, it's thinking that thought. Anything to get the chain of thoughts flowing. Does that make sense? Yes. And anything to start feeding itself. Because once it gets interested in something, then you can think, think, think, think, think, and you're no longer bored. And then the mind is at ease because it's like, oh, thank God, we're thinking again. So as you step away from the process of thinking, it can be kind of difficult. But over time, your anxiety won't have food and water and it'll start to wither away and eventually it'll die. And then as you think anxious thoughts, as you engage in the world, that's going to add food and water. So this is why conquering anxiety takes really months or even years. And then, yeah. So good luck, man. Thank you. Thanks for everything, man. Unfortunately, guys, we're going to have to stop because we're actually about 45 minutes over time. And I'll do a better job of time management and meditation next time, okay? Good luck. Thanks.