 All righty. Let's get started. So okay. Oh, my goodness. All right. Let's get started. Let me see if there's some... Okay. Hold on. Do I need to record? So welcome guys to the first official Healthy Gamer webinar. So we're going to be... So this webinar is going to be a little bit about what I call the science of the self. So what I mean by that is that we don't usually learn how we work, right? So there are a lot of like principles about how human beings function, whether it be neuroscience or psychology or yoga or meditation, like what we learn from Buddhism or things like that. So we're kind of going through life without understanding the mechanics or how to use the controller or the mouse and keyboard for who we are. So where do desires come from? Where does ego come from? How does behavior work? How does motivation work? No one ever teaches us these things. How do you learn how to concentrate? How do you focus your mind on one thing? What is the nature of procrastination? So this webinar is actually designed to offer you guys sort of a comprehensive answer to a lot of those questions. And the structure of the webinar is going to be as follows. So every day we're going to do yoga for about 10 minutes. So I'm about to shift my camera and we're going to do something called surya namaskar. The next... And then each day we're going to have a 30 to 40 minute lecture. And today's lecture is going to be about motivation and how motivation works, where it comes from, the neuroscience of motivation, how to create motivation in your life, which is actually incorrect. It's really about unlocking or redirecting motivation. And then we're going to have about 10 to 15 minutes for Q&A and we're going to end with meditation. So my goal here is to give you guys kind of a chance to start your day off right during COVID. And because everyone's going to be at home and stuff like that. So how can we sort of behaviorally anchor you to doing something like properly on a daily basis? How can you learn something? How can we make it concrete? How can we make it comprehensive? So I encourage all of you guys to not just watch, but to participate in the yoga that we're about to do. So the first thing that we're going to do is something called surya namaskar. And surya namaskar is the Sanskrit phrase for sun salutation. So it's a sequence of yoga poses that is designed to kind of start your day off. So you're supposed to do it like in the morning, like facing the sunrise ideally. And what I like about the surya namaskar is that it's kind of like a complete set of yoga poses that you can kind of stick with. So when I first started learning yoga back in 2003, surya namaskar actually even before 2003, like when I was a kid and I would go to like Sunday school, like surya namaskar were the poses that they taught us at the age of 10. And then I went to India and started learning, I mean, relearned surya namaskar and then learned all this advanced yoga. And basically now my main yoga practice is like back to surya namaskar because it's kind of a complete sort of yoga practice. And so what so one or two preparatory things about the surya namaskar. So the first is that the goal of yoga is not to become a human pretzel. So the goal of yoga is not to stretch as much as possible or increase your flexibility. Yoga is actually a preparatory practice or asana, which are yoga postures or preparatory practices for meditation. So the goal of yoga is actually to prepare your mind for meditation or even enter a premeditative state. So what do I mean by that? So what that means is that when you guys are doing this practice, what I want you to notice is what your mind is doing. So the goal of these postures is to stress you out enough so that your mind cannot wander. So the reason that the practices are difficult is because your brain is going to be your somatosensory cortex, which is the part of your brain that gives you information about your body, is going to be sending you so many signals that you're not going to be able to have your mind wander. Right. So if we think about when does the mind wander, the mind wanders when we are physically relaxed. So if you're physically stressed out, it's actually very hard for the mind to wander. And if you have a physical demand, then the mind is going to focus on that thing. So the goal of yoga practice, I want you guys to find the point in the yoga practice. So if I tell you to, for example, bend down and touch your toes, the goal is not to actually touch your toes. The goal is to go down as far as you can to the point that your mind is focused on touching your toes. Okay. Yeah, I know you guys are. So some of y'all are in the EU and things like that. So, you know, hopefully if y'all are here live, that's fantastic. So do yoga in the middle of the day. And yeah, so we're going to go ahead and start. Okay. Okay. Light in the back. Hopefully it's not that bad. We're going to do three. So I want to make sure that, ah, let's do. So we're going to do three rounds of Surya Namaskar. Okay. So we're going to start. So start by putting your hands, let me actually fix this. You guys can still hear me. Okay. Okay. So start by putting your hands. So put your feet together and stand up straight and your ankles should be touching. So you don't want your feet spread apart. You want them right next to each other and then place your hands in front of you like this. Close your eyes and notice that when you close your eyes, you can begin to be unstable. That's the first thing, right? If you open your eyes, stability returns. And then go ahead and close your eyes again and instability returns. So just feel that instability. Focus on stabilization and notice that your mind focuses as soon as the instability returns. Open your eyes. As instability goes away, the mind becomes free once again. And then go ahead and close your eyes. Feel that instability. And now we'll begin the practice of Suddhi Namaskar. So the first step is to raise your hands, hands above your head. You can open your eyes now and go ahead and let your biceps touch your ears. So the goal here is to keep your biceps touching your ears. And that's really the posture that you want and just go ahead and feel this for a second. Feel the stretch in your back, the pull. Excellent. Go ahead and feel that. As you hold it, you may begin to quake a little bit. That's perfectly okay. And now we're going to go down to step two, which is to touch your toes. Now in this posture, we're going to have to be very careful because the goal actually is not to touch your toes. The goal is to hang your head and hang your body down. And I want you guys to notice that there's tightness maybe in the back of your legs or in your back or even in your neck. And now what I want you to do is let gravity pull you forward. Let gravity pull you forward. Keep your legs straight. Let your head hang. And we're just going to hang like this for a second. And notice all the sensations that arise in your body. Your body's like, hey, man, what are we doing? Why are we doing this? And then notice, go ahead and come up a little bit. And then notice how it's easier. And as you go down, let your body hang. Let your head hang. Hold that for a second. And now we're going to do step three. So what I want you guys to do is put your palms face down right next to your feet. So you're kind of squatting, right? The palms of your hands are touching the ground just like your feet. You may feel a little bit of a stretch. And now I want you to take your right leg and put it back behind you like this. So as you look down, you should be able to see actually, shit. So as you look down, you guys see that? Yeah. As you look down, you should be able to see your palms and your left foot in a straight line. Your knee is going to kind of be next to your shoulder. And then you've got this stretch in the back. And notice that you can maybe move your leg up or down a little bit, and it kind of enhances the stretch. You can kind of go down and lean into it, right? And then you can kind of go up. And just hold that for a second. Now put the other leg back. Okay. And now we're going to kind of enter push-up position and hold this for a moment. Notice it. And then we're going to lay down on the floor. And this part is going to be a little bit weird. So what I want you guys to do is I want your toes on the floor, knees on the floor, hip, like butt in the air. So your hips up, hips not touching the floor, chest touching the floor. You don't want your belly touching the floor. And the last thing is forehead. So you're kind of touching the floor on four points, forehead, chest, knees, and toes. And that's going to create like, notice what happens if you just like lay your head like this, you're relaxed. As you touch your forehead to the floor, notice what happens to the back of your neck. Next, what we're going to do is we're going to move our hips to the floor and we're going to push up. So I'm going to show you guys this way. Okay. So we're not going to do an actual push-up, but your hips stay on the floor and you just want to bend your torso upward. So your knees, your elbows should be raised. I want your shoulders rolled out. So don't go like this. Don't go like this. Shoulders out, elbows out is fine. And feel that stretch in your back. You'll let stretch. And now what we're going to do is push up and then butts in the air. And I want you guys to form a triangle, form a triangle with your kind of with your body. So palms face down. Once again, your head should be kind of aligned with your biceps or even hanging. And then the last thing that I want you to do, if you guys really want to feel a nice stretch, put your heels to the ground. So try to keep your toes on the ground and try to flatten your feet. And notice what happens when you try to flatten your feet. You'll feel a beautiful stretch in your calf and just focus on that sensation. And now what we're going to do is return back to a previous pose. So now I want you to take your right leg and put it forward. Okay. So now these are your two hands and the right leg are kind of in a line. And feel that stretch in your hips. And then just kind of feel that for a second and now back up to touching your toes. Let your head hang and then up. And then back to the start. Okay. We're going to do one more round. So go ahead and relax for a second. Notice what your body's doing. Like your body's kind of like waking up, right? It's kind of feeling a little bit more. Take a deep breath. Now we're going to do one more round. We're going to do this one quicker. Okay. Palms in front of you. Feet together. And then up. Biceps to the ears. And then down. Touching your toes. Remember, keep your legs straight. Back bent. Let gravity pull you down. And notice the stretch in your legs as gravity pulls you down. And then right leg back. And then look up. So right leg back. Left foot and two hands in a line. Other leg back. So we're going to kind of be in push-up position. Feel that for a moment. Go down. So toes, knees, chest, and forehead. Feel that stretch in your neck. And now push-up hips to the ground. Back bent. Shoulders out. And then back to the start. Knees to the ground. Back bent. Shoulders out. Knees, I mean elbows bent. Feel that stretch. And then now look up. One of my favorite asanas, it's called Bhujandasana. Awesome. So feel that. I guess Parvatasana, mountain bows, or downward facing dog, I think is what people call it nowadays. And so remember, make a triangle with your butt in the air. And then put your heels into the ground. Feel that stretch in your calf. Now right leg forward. Okay. Look up. Feel that stretch. Yeah. Good. And then other leg forward. Let yourself move down. Let gravity do the work for you. Don't push it. Hands up. Biceps to the elbow. And then back to center. Okay. What do you guys, you guys want to do one more? Let's check in. I've lied. Okay. Let's do, okay, we'll start with two. So we'll do three tomorrow. Okay. So let's switch gears. Okay. How was that? Okay. Too fast. All right. One more. Okay. We're going to just start with, we're going to start with two. Okay. So some people may have difficulty with that because it's like, you know, it's kind of new for your body. So we're going to start with two. Don't worry, guys. We'll work our ways up. Okay. Patience. Okay. Lesson number one is patience. Patience. So let's give everyone, I know you guys want to, you can, hey, you know, this is kind of interesting. Did you guys know that you can do this on your own? That you don't need Dr. K to teach you? Fascinating. So if you guys want to do one more, go for it. Or do it on your own time, or you can start with three in the morning. We're going to do three tomorrow. Okay. So we're going to over time, gradually build up our, yeah, people are sweating. So people are having a different kind of response to this, which is perfectly okay. But what I really want to do is get to, I want to be a little bit mindful of our time. So we're going to get to the lecture because that's good too. Okay. All right. No device is connected. There we go. Okay. So. You can have a little bit of water and just notice how you feel for a second. Okay. All right. So next what we're going to do is we're going to start our lecture. So we're going to start talking about motivation. Okay. All right. So let me just get set up. I feel like my arms are too short. Oh yeah. You will discover all kinds of things. About. Your arms and body when you do yoga. Okay. So let's just start with this. Testing, testing, testing. Okay. All right. So let's go ahead and switch. So today. We're going to talk about motivation. So let's start. This. This over here. Okay. So. How are we going to understand motivation? Okay. So the first thing that I want to share with you guys is we're going to talk about motivation. Okay. So the first thing is we're going to talk a little bit about our approach and how the seminar is structured. So the first thing is that I want us to draw on a couple of sources of information. The first is going to be observation. So rather than rely on science or what we know or what we've read, we're actually going to focus on observation. So we're going to develop hypotheses and we're going to make observations about ourself and see if we can uncover things about motivation to better understand how it works. The second source of knowledge that we're going to rely on is actually like the yogic or meditative tradition. So this is kind of where I learned a lot of this stuff. And what I mean by that is that, you know, yogis like basically were experts at observing the self and through observing the self, they made certain observations or conclusions. And that's going to be a lot of what we draw on. The third thing that we're going to draw on is neuroscience. And I know I just said we're not going to rely on science, but what I mean by that is that I don't want you guys when I'm asking you a question, I don't want your answers to be the same. I want your answer to be what you've read. I want it to be what you've experienced. Because here's the thing about like reading something, right? So you can read a book that explains to you how alcoholism works in the brain, and that doesn't necessarily change your ability to control whether you have a drink or not. So what's more important than what experts say is what you discover about yourself. Okay. And this is going to be true. This segment is going to be true for basically every part of the webinar that we do. That the most important thing is what do you observe or what do you experience? And if it's contrary to what the most brilliant neuroscientist says, that's fine. Forget about the neuroscience because you've got to deal with you. Okay. So that's just kind of a quick kind of background about how this is structured. Okay. So now our discussion on motivation is going to have four segments. The first segment is do we really lack motivation? So we're going to spend a few minutes talking about, you know, what's the actual problem? Like, what's going on here? Like, what is motivation? Do we really lack it? How do we determine that we lack it or not? And the second thing that we're going to ask is how does motivation work? So once we define our problem, so this is defining our problem. Okay. This is going to be like understanding our problem. The next thing is what does this mean for us? Right. So this is applying, you know, our understanding of things to us. And the fourth thing is what do we do about it? Right. So this is kind of actions are moving forward. And this is what everyone wants number four, but we're going to take our time in getting there. Okay. Because I think jumping straight to the solution actually isn't as important as, you know, really understanding what the problem is. So let's start with number one. Okay. So do you lack motivation? So let's just think a little bit about motivation. So people tend to say that, okay, like, especially in kind of Gen Z millennials, right, we kind of say, oh, I lack motivation. I don't have any motivation. I'm lazy. I'm undisciplined, whatever. So let's just think about that for a second. So the first thing is that this is a very, very common problem, right? So lacking motivation is common. That's number one. So what is that? What's the significance of that? So the first thing that I want you guys to understand, so I'm a physician, right? So I think about things kind of from a medical standpoint. And what I want to share with you guys is that pathology is rare. What do I mean by that? If we look at actual diseases or things that are broken within people, those tend to be rare. For example, like cancer, like not everyone doesn't have cancer. Like cancer is a rare thing. And if you're unlucky, it kind of happens to you or someone that you love. But generally speaking, the body works the way it's supposed to. So if there's a common problem, I don't actually think of it as a problem. If an entire generation of people are facing a common shared problem, which is that we all lack motivation, it's not that we lack motivation. It's not actually a problem. It's actually the way that we're wired, right? Does that make sense? If everyone shares a particular thing, like everyone can use their left and right hand, or presumably most people can use their left or right hand. And if everyone can do it, or if it's a common issue with most people, then that's sort of how we're designed. So the first thing to understand is that... There we go. Okay, so the first thing to... Okay, I can't delete that. Fascinating. No problem. Okay, so the first thing... So pathology is rare. We all... What the... We all lack motivation. Okay? So then what this means is that actually our brain, our brain makes us unmotivated. And I'm sorry, guys, I'm a doctor, which means I have terrible handwriting, right? So even though we were using electronic medical records, we still have terrible handwriting. And so our brain actually makes us unmotivated in that this isn't actually... This is not broken. I want you guys to really understand this. That your lack of motivation is not a problem, it's actually how your brain is wired. And so the first thing that this kind of clues us into is if everyone's doing it, and it seems to be really, really common, then that's what our brain is designed to do. It's how our brain is supposed to be. And so this, I think, is really important because the basic reason that I think so many people struggle to fix their motivation is that they're defining the problem incorrectly. We're trying to fix something that fundamentally is not broken. Our brain is designed a particular way. And so you're trying to redesign the function of your brain, which is not possible. So instead, what you should do is understand how your brain works and then create a life that sort of uses your brain for you instead of trying to reprogram your brain. Okay? So what do we kind of do with this? Okay? The second thing... Okay. There we go. So the second thing is, do you really lack motivation? So let's just think about this for a second. Are you motivated? So what people usually say is that... And let's think about this for a second. So when you wake up every day and you kind of feel bad about yourself, and let's say, I'm just assuming for a moment that you spend your whole day kind of on social media, Reddit, Instagram, YouTube, gaming, et cetera. Like, you wake up every day and you feel terrible about yourself. So you have all of this, like, shame and you're like, I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. I'm not motivated. So you have all of this, like, shame and like all these, like, you know, negative feelings, which we hate having. And despite having all those negative feelings and suffering, we continue to do the same thing. So I want you guys to think a little bit about suffering and how suffering motivates us. Right? And if we think about it, usually, like, we try very hard to avoid suffering. Like, if I have, you know, if I go to school and I get bullied and people beat me up every day, like, it's really hard for me to go to school. And so even if we think about it, despite daily suffering, we continue in our patterns. So what that means, so usually suffering causes us to change our behavior. But what this means is our suffering is actually less than our motivation. Just think about that for a second. Right? In order for you to continue doing something that causes you so much pain and suffering, you actually have to be highly, highly motivated to do it. So when people tell me, oh, I have no motivation in life, all I have to do is do this. So when people tell me, oh, I have no motivation in life, all I want to do is play video games. What I really interpret is I have a high, high, high amount of motivation to play video games all the time. It's not that you lack motivation. It's that your motivation is pointed in the wrong direction. So just think about this for a second. How hard is it for you to stop playing video games? It can be really, really hard. And if it's really, really hard, that means you're highly, highly motivated to play video games. So let's first understand that the problem isn't that we lack motivation. The problem is that our motivation is pointed in the wrong direction. And furthermore, we don't really think about how complicated tasks are. And we actually have a lot of different kinds of motivation. But this is the main thing to understand. So now if we kind of accept this premise, and if you guys, you know, I encourage you to observe yourself and ask yourself, do you continue doing a behavior despite it causing you suffering? And if the answer is yes, that means your motivation circuitry is actually really hardcore geared towards that behavior. And so then the question becomes like, okay, so then, you know, why do people struggle to fix it? And I think the reason people struggle to fix it is because they conceive of it as a lack of something. Whereas like, it's not that it's a lack of something. It's just that that thing is there and it's pointed in the wrong direction. So what people try to do is create motivation instead of shifting motivation. And I don't know if you guys realize this, but like creating something that already exists is like really, really hard. But if the problem is not that you lack it, the problem is that like it's an issue of direction, not an issue of like absence of presence. And this is the first fundamental mistake that people make. Right. As they try to fix something that isn't broken. Right. Your effort is completely wasted because actually your motivation circuitry is intact and you're highly, highly motivated. You're just motivated towards the wrong thing. So instead of making motivation, what you really need to do is like learn how to turn the steering wheel and then you're going to be in a far better place. So my answer to this question is, do you lack motivation? My answer is no. I actually think that most people in our generation are highly, highly motivated. Good. They're just highly motivated in a direction they don't want to be. If you think about people who like play tons of video games and like grind stuff, right? Like they're dedicated to playing 10 hours, 12 hours, 18 hours a day, day after day after day, week after week after week. You have people who are sort of addicted to social media and are dedicated to making posts and crafting their posts and getting likes and getting follows. They're like so dedicated to it. They're highly, highly motivated. Um, and so, you know, the answer is, do you lack motivation? No. So let's start there. So on to number two. Okay. How does motivation work? Okay. So the first thing is that motivation isn't binary. And what I mean by that is if you think about motivation, we talk about motivation in a way that is like I lack motivation or I have motivation, but that's not actually how motivation works. It's not binary, right? If you think about your day, like, let's say, so I have a, I have a glass of water, right? So I have a glass of water here. And if I have a glass of water, then, um, you know, my motivation to drink it is like one type of motivation, my motivation to make money is like, I'm not going to drink it. My motivation to make money is separate. My motivation to work out a separate, my motivation to play video games is separate. Motivation is not one thing. There are a thousand different things that calculations that our brain is brain is performing all the time. And depending on those calculations, we actually engage in the action or we don't engage in the action. So that mean is that we have thousands. Of motivation calculations. So why is this an important point? So I believe that in order to move forward in life, you need to understand and define your problem. And this is also something that comes from medicine, which is that if you want to appropriately treat a disease, you have to appropriately diagnose a disease. So I think a big problem that people face is of inappropriate diagnosis. So they say, I lack motivation, but that's not really actionable. Like you can't flip a switch in your brain to create more motivation. And that's why they fundamentally fail because they're trying to solve a problem that doesn't exist. So of course that's going to lead to failure. They're developing treatments with an improper diagnosis. So what we have to understand is that motivation is actually a thousand different calculations kind of constantly going on. And so let me just kind of put that down. So motivation really is an ongoing calculation about likelihood of success. This is what motivation is. And now we're going to switch gears for a second. Okay. So. Application window. Interesting. Let's do this then. Okay. So now we're going to do a little bit of, we're going to take a look at neuroscience. Okay. All right. Great. Okay. So I want to, we're going to see a little bit about what this means for us. And we're going to look a little bit at science. So this is a paper by actually a good friend of mine, Dr. Dowd, who we trained together. And so this is a paper about schizophrenia. And I think it's bizarre, but one of the best ways to learn about motivation is through studying schizophrenia. And why is that? So if we want to understand how something works, one of the best ways to understand the function of something is to look at cases where it's broken. Right. So if we want to like understand, okay, how does an engine work? If we remove one piece of the engine and the engine no longer turns on, we can study the engine and sort of figure out, okay, what is the role of that one piece? Does that make sense? So if we want to understand something, looking at a broken version actually give us a lot of insight into what, you know, what is broken and what influence that part has. And so why do we look at schizophrenia? Because in schizophrenia, people have two major things going on. One is something that we call positive symptoms. And this is usually what the media portrays, which is that people will sometimes become paranoid or hallucinate or have delusions. And we actually have decent medications for that. The real problem in schizophrenia is actually something that's that are called negative symptoms, which are over time, people with schizophrenia start to become like really, really a motivated. So when you kind of think about the quintessential crazy homeless person, I'm not trying to be judgmental or anything, but a lot of times people with schizophrenia end up in like bad social situations because their motivational drives aren't functioning properly. And so what we know from schizophrenia is that. That basically, like some of their motivational circuitry doesn't work properly. So let's just define, you know, as we look at the paper. So what we see from negative symptoms is aspects of schizophrenia include constructs such as a sociality, which that what that means is people like are not social abolition, a reduction in the motivation to initiate or predict. Persist in goal directed behavior. This is exactly what we're talking about and an hedonia reduction in the ability to experience pleasure. So abolition is something that we see a lot in schizophrenia, and I think is a lot. We also see it in our generation. So let's try to understand how abolition works. And so what we're going to do in this paper is we're really going to look at this figure. OK. And the first thing that I want you guys to notice is that the behavioral responses over here. And, you know, when we think about motivation, we think about, OK, no motivation means. Kind of. OK, so the first thing is that no one really appreciates that there's a lot of complicated stuff that goes into a behavioral response. That's the first issue, right? So you guys say, oh, I'm not motivated. I need motivation. It's not like a leads to be. There's actually a lot of different things that happen in the brain that lead to a behavioral response and create motivation. So what we're going to focus on today, so I can run through these. So the first thing is hedonics. So what that means is how likable the behavior is. So how pleasurable the behavior is. The second thing that kind of goes into this input is how much you want it. So I want you guys to understand this for a second. Wanting and liking are two different things. OK, we oftentimes conflate the two, but they're actually completely different circuits in the brain. Your desires and pleasure are actually different things, even though they're tightly related. Reinforcement through reinforcement, learning through reward is dopaminergic, and this is wanting and actually enjoying something is different. Anyway, we're not going to go too much into that. What I really want to focus on is this stuff. So the first thing is that our brain is constantly performing a cost benefit analysis. And what that means is that we're taking in new information, we're computing some kind of like, we're performing a computation, and then based on new information and a computation that we're doing, we construct a plan and then it leads to a behavioral response. OK, so what does that mean? So we're going to kind of go back to. So my point in kind of diving into that neuroscience for a second is simply that. Let's see if this works. Hold on. OK, my screen mirror. Just got to restart my screen mirroring. There we go. So now going back to. This OK, so what does this mean? For us. The main thing to understand is that motivation is not binary and that actually there's a constant calculation that's going in our in our brain about what we should do and what we should not do. So if I think about like drinking a glass of water, I'm going to think about what is the motivation for motivation. So my brain is performing a calculation as my sodium level rises in my bloodstream, it sends signals to my brain that make me crave water and get thirsty. And whether I respond to those signals or not depends on all kinds of things like the availability of the water. So I'm going to use my brain to think about what does that mean? signals to my brain that make me crave water and get thirsty. And whether I respond to those signals or not depends on all kinds of things like the availability of water. So if water is close by and I'm not very thirsty, I'm likely to drink it. But if water is not close by, then the thirst actually has to increase to change my behavior to get me to go drink water. Do you guys get that? So like there are all kinds of like processes that are going on about availability of water. What's my thirst level? What am I doing right now? Am I going to be able to drink water later? Should I drink water now? There are all kinds of things that kind of even go into something as simple as drinking water. And so what does that mean for us? Like why do we care about understanding motivation that way? And so I'll kind of give you guys an example. So like I think understanding the complexity of motivation helps us understand the different components we can act on to increase motivation. If we think about it as 100% or 0%, then it's like hard to act, right? But if we think about motivation as 90% and there's like kind of a 60%, 30%, then like how do we navigate between these? How does our brain sort of decide like if you know, how do we move from 30 to 60 to 90? And as we understand more variables, we can actually start to make changes in our life to move in this direction. So let me give you guys kind of an example of this process and how understanding complexity of something helps us do a better job. So sometimes people come to me and they say, I want to be healthy. And then what's my answer to that? Do I say, okay, here's how you be healthy. Like okay, let me just give you health. And people walk around and they say, oh, I want to be healthy. I want to be healthy. I want to be healthy. I want to be healthy. I'm not healthy. I'm not healthy. And so how do you become healthy? Is healthy something you can become? Like do you just become healthy? No. But that's the way that we talk about motivation. We say, oh, I want to be motivated. I lack motivation. I don't have motivation. Other people have motivation. I don't have motivation. I need motivation. I need motivation. And people can walk around and they say, oh, I want to be healthy. I'm not healthy. Other people are healthy. I wish I was like them. If I was luckier in life, I would have been born healthy, just like they're born healthy. But instead I'm lazy. And they got dealt a good hand in life where their laziness level is low and my laziness level is high. And so I don't have motivation. I wish I could be motivated. Right? So this is where I think like if we think about this, like it's absurd. Like you don't become healthy. You don't really become healthy. So what you do is you understand that health, so health is an emergent property based on multiple variables. And now what I want you, I want you guys to just think about that. Like that makes sense, right? Health is a function of whether you exercise, what you eat, whether you see a therapist, whether you meditate, whether you spend time outdoors, whether you socialize. Health is a really, really complicated process. And if someone comes to me and says, I want to be healthy. Can you give me a pill to make me healthy? Or what is the strategy to uncover health? My answer is there isn't one. There are actually a dozen strategies. And the more you understand the components of health, the easier it is to be healthy. So what we're going to do is replace this word with motivation, right? Is an emergent property that's based on multiple variables, is an ongoing calculation about the likelihood of success. And this calculation has many variables. Okay. So then the question becomes part three. What does this mean for us? Okay. So what we do is we do a likelihood of success calculation. Okay. So I want you guys to think about this for a second. Our brains evolved not in our current society, but in a society where we were like hunter, gatherers, cavemen, whatever. So I want you to imagine that there's a caveman with a spear, right? And the caveman wants to go hunting and he wants to go look for food. So he like leaves his hut in the morning and then he looks at different trails. He sees lots of different trails, right? How does he determine which trail to go down? So he looks at five trails and he's like, oh, I don't really know like what to do. But then he sees, let's say that he sees tracks over here. So as he sees tracks over here, what does that do to his likelihood of success calculation that he's going to find food in this direction? Is the likelihood of success calculation increases the probability? It motivates him to move in this direction. You guys see that? So basically, this bit of data actually changes his motivation very quickly. It's kind of simple, right? And then let's say like, so this is how he's, this is where motivation comes from. So we do a likelihood of success calculation. And then let's say that like over here, he sees actually like, you know, a deer. Okay. So if he sees a deer over here, then what does that do to his success calculation? It increases his success calculation a lot. He's like, oh, there's actually food there. So suddenly his motivation is going in this direction. Now he's going there even more than over here. So if we think about this, his internal motivation is actually influenced very clearly by his probability of success calculation. So let's think a little bit about that. What has to do, so what goes into our probability of success calculation? So I have a problem. Okay. And I lack motivation. So let's say that I don't have a job. So what do we think about our probability of success? So like find a job. What's the probability of success for finding a job? Who the F knows? You can't assign a number to that. And if you can't assign a number to that, you're going to stay in the middle. Just think about this for a second. If our brain has no idea how to assign a likelihood of success, it's not going to act. Right? Okay. Okay. Versus play a game which makes us feel better. What's the likelihood of success here? One hundred percent. So think about this. Look at it, right? How do you find a job? Like, I don't even know. What does that even mean? So in our brain, when you wake up in the morning and you think about, okay, I need to find a job, and then your brain is like, I don't know how to gauge whether that's going to work or not. Right? It's kind of like waking up in the morning and saying, I want to find a pound of gold. And your brain is going to be like, I don't know how to do that. Like, what's the likelihood of success of finding a pound of gold? And then your brain is also like, okay, well, we're feeling bad. So that's almost like a need that it wants to fix, like hunger or thirst. So as negative emotions arise within you, your brain is like, hmm, what can we do about these negative emotions because I'm trying to protect you, buddy, and I know that you're suffering right now. Why don't we just go play a game? And so the problem is that your brain is actually working perfectly fine. It's just, it's doing a good job at what it knows how to do. And as long as you view your problems as something or your goals as something that like don't have clear likelihoods of success, then you're not going to do them. And so let's think about this for a second. So a lot of people nowadays would rather play games with a 0% chance of finding a job rather than apply for a job with a 10% chance of success. Just think about that for a second. You guys would rather do something that definitely does not help you move forward in life versus something that may not help you move forward in life. And how on earth does this work? Right? Why on earth would your brain pick a 0% chance over a 10% chance? And the reason is because this is actually not a 10% chance. This is a 100% chance of feeling better. So it's not that you lack motivation. It's simply that, you know, your brain is doing like a different kind of calculation and like this is why, because like, this is why you guys do this. Right? If you think about this, you know, this is an observation. This is what I was saying about observation. So if we actually look at ourselves, we find this to be true. And if this is true, rather than assuming that we're broken, what we should do is take that observation and try to use it as like scientific data and then develop an explanatory hypothesis that accounts for this observation. The observations that you make about yourself are not signs that you're broken. They're clues as to how you work. And that's a really, really important principle that I believe 100% in. So don't assume yourself to be broken. Assume that everything about you is data about how you work and then start to construct a strategy about how to deal with those truths. Okay? So the second thing is that, so if we think about likelihood of success, of success. What else kind of goes into this? So the next big thing that goes into it is confidence. Right? So like, if we think about, you know, our hunter again, and let's say that there's a deer over here and then there's a like yak over here. Okay? So whether he goes for the deer or he goes for the yak depends on his confidence in being able to catch either one. Right? And be able to hunt it down. So if we think about a likelihood of success calculation, your fundamental confidence for success leads to the likelihood of success. So what that means is that if your confidence is low, that leads to a low likelihood of success. And that's like mathematical. And if we have a low likelihood of success, that in turn leads to low motivation or lack of behavior. Right? And I don't know how else to put this, but why don't you guys wake up every day and jump up into the air and try to fly? Because wouldn't it be awesome to be able to fly? Like it would be cool if you could fly. Like imagine like how fun that would be. But why don't you wake up every day and jump up and try to fly? Like why don't you guys do that? Because the likelihood of success is close to zero. So even though you want to be able to fly, you're not going to spend time trying to fly if the likelihood of success is zero. So likelihood of success leads to motivation or behavior. And if we think about what leads to likelihood of success, it's confidence in your ability. Okay? So what is this? So what should you do? All this stuff is fine. But now, right? What should you do? So the first thing to understand, so let's like look at our equation. So confidence leads to likelihood of success, which in turn leads to motivation. So now the question is if we want to increase this quantity, how can we act on these two quantities? So the first is that we can change our task from find a job, likelihood of success, zero percent, or actually let's not say zero. Let's be a little bit more fair. Okay? Let's say one percent. Okay? To apply for a job. Ah, now what happens? So when we set our target as applying for our job, our brain is like, oh, like applying for a job, I can do that. Let's say 30%. Let's remember we're us, right? So even though it's perfectly in our control, our brain is like, oh, like applying for a job, like I understand what that means. Okay? Let's even change it a little bit further. Fill out a job application. That's like 50%. And then download a job application. That's pretty easy. That's like 80%. Downloading job applications is easy. You guys see this? This is the trend. So you have to program your task so that your brain is like, oh, actually I can do that. So if we go back to our hunter, if we tell our hunter, go find, go find food in the mount, like in the 10 mile radius, the hunter doesn't know where to start. You guys get that? The more roads they have, the bigger the task is, the more paralyzed the hunter is. So if the hunter gets some kind of data that focuses his attention, his ability to act actually increases. So we need to do the same thing over here. We need to change our task to increase the likelihood of success. And as you increase the likelihood of success, you're more able to act. So next question is what about confidence? So we're going to do an entire video on confidence. But let's just think a little bit about this. So what leads to confidence? So the first thing, or I mean, you know, how do you get confidence? So the first thing is that I'm going to kind of just toss out a couple of things. The first thing is that dealing with negative emotion. So one of the things that keeps us from being confident is that we're sitting on these piles, generally speaking, of like negative emotion. And if you feel bad about yourself, like if you have shame, if you have fear, if you have low self-worth, then it's going to hard. It's hard to be confident. And confidence is going to affect all of these numbers. Right? So the first thing, and this is kind of weird because everyone kind of thinks about, oh, how do I solve motivation? How do I apply for a job? They're looking sort of externally, or even they'll talk about habit or brain hacks or they'll develop all kinds of external strategies. Whereas my overwhelming experience is that if you actually deal with your negative emotions, your confidence increases and the motivation naturally goes up. Motivation just goes up on its own. It's just like it happens magically. Like as I do therapy with people and I help people process their negative emotions, they just start being more active in life. So one solution to motivation is just by directly dealing with your confidence and addressing your confidence. The next thing that you can do is understand where confidence comes from. So confidence, a lot of people think that confidence comes from success, but actually that's not true. So if you guys watch some of our videos, you'll realize that success after success after success actually leads to things like imposter syndrome. So confidence comes from surviving failure. And so what that means is that when most people are thinking about motivation, they think that if they get like something good going on for them, they'll be motivated and that kind of leads to like positivity. So what I want you guys to understand is that likelihood of success comes from confidence. Right. So we kind of have this relationship here and confidence comes from surviving failure. And so the real key to building confidence is actually failing. And what that means is that failure leads to confidence. And confidence leads to success. So what that means is that failure really leads to success. And let's just think about this for a second. Like, if you think about a kid, right, how does a kid get confident in walking? If you if you've ever watched a kid learn how to walk at first, they're they're hesitant to walk because they're afraid of falling. So they hold on to things and you try to get them to take like one or two steps. And you really have to encourage a kid to learn how to walk. And so the tricky thing here is like, how does a kid learn how to walk? And what happens is they fall and then they get back up again and they're like, oh, actually, falling is not that big of a deal. And the more they fall, the easier it becomes to try. So failure. Makes trying. Easier and trying is about success. Confidence is about dealing with the uncertain, right? So confidence isn't guaranteeing a result. If you're confident in something, you're willing to do something with uncertainty. And so if you guys want to work on your motivation, I'd say two things. One is change your task. OK. Oh, shit. I don't know. OK, so change your task. Right. And the second thing is fail. This is what you guys should do. And if you really want to understand how to increase your motivation, those are the two things that you should do. Define your task more clearly. And learn how to fail. And then the third thing is deal with your internal emotions, because as long as this stuff is kind of sitting here, you guys are going to be like, S.O.L. And this, if you kind of deal with this stuff, if you get rid of this stuff, then suddenly your motivation is going to increase. It has nothing to do with your habits or things. I mean, it has stuff to do with that. But I think these are kind of the highest yield things. OK, so we've got a few minutes for questions. OK, so we've got a few minutes for questions. OK, so we're going to try this. How do I? I just clicked to check. For speak. Speak. Accept. So I think I'm accepting people. So if you guys, you guys want to try talking, how does this work? So. Martin, I'm accepting Hayden. I'm accepting you guys want to try saying something. Can other people hear you? How does this work? All right. Looks like our questions are not working great. OK. So Milla Chile, Hadi, Josh, Joshua, Samuel, Daniel, Jay, Aditya. You guys want to try speaking? Hmm. So cute. OK. Let's see. Looks like that's not working. Daniel has joined, Oh, beautiful. We've got Daniel. We've gotàcies. oh, now, yesterday. It looks like we're talking and it looks like we're screening. Yes. Yeah, that looks like we're saying yes. That looks like making room, doesn't it, To momento. Daniel has joined. Oh, beautiful. We've got Daniel and Samuel. Hey guys. Okay. So ask your questions. What questions? We've got about five minutes. 10 minutes. Oh, noes. Okay. I'm going to invite more people. Hello? Oh, hey. Ask your question, buddy. Samuel, Daniel? I can't hear anything. I'm just going to start randomly accepting people. Maybe I'm going to bust the webinar. Okay. Oh, Vince has joined the room. There we go. Delag. Great. Ask your questions, guys. Let's get started. We can't hear anything. Oh, see a little bit of- Hello? Yeah. Ask away, buddy. Okay. So, I'm going to invite more people. I'm going to invite more people. I'm going to invite more people. I'm going to invite more people. I'm going to invite more people. I'm going to invite more people. Okay. I have two questions. Go for it. First is like my brain overvalues my time because I like gaming so much that like doing anything besides gaming is like a high cost for me. Yep. And the second question is like, I think I'm meditating wrong. I've been doing like for eight weeks, but like I see the guests like having major experience at first and like I don't have anything. Okay. So, let's start with the first one. So, I completely agree with you that your brain overvalues the time from gaming. That's why everyone games because gaming gives you a very clear like path to success. So, what should you do about that? Smaller tasks. Absolutely, right? So, you have to make the cost of gaming, like if you tell yourself to apply for a job or get a girlfriend or get healthy or get in shape, your brain is like that is way too much of a time investment for a very low likelihood of success. And so, what you need to do is change the equation for your brain. And you say that you're meditating wrong. Yeah. What do you mean by that? I've been meditating for like over eight weeks and like I don't have a technique that like, I tried everything that was on YouTube and I feel like I don't achieve a no mind state. And I see the guests in the show like on the major having major experiences at first like Mitch like was major and I don't remember, right? Yeah, so that's kind of complicated and has something to do with a Sanskrit term called Niksha which means initiation. And I'm sorry, but I know this is gonna sound completely bizarre and it's probably gonna create more questions than answers but there's this concept in meditation instruction where a teacher actually imparts a portion of their spiritual energy to the person they're directly teaching. And I actually didn't put, so like you get initiated into a meditation practice by a teacher or guru. And that somehow that initiation is worth more than like learning it from a book or a video or whatever. And I actually did not put any value in that concept. I found no scientific validity for that concept until I started making observations that the people that I teach meditation directly to oftentimes have big experiences on the first try. Whereas a lot of people watching do not, I don't understand quite how that works. So I'd say that, you know, continue practicing and try different techniques. We're gonna do a little bit of meditation now. Okay, does anybody else have a question? Daniel, thanks for coming on, buddy. I'm gonna just boot you in case if it gives room for someone else. Anybody else have a question? Yeah, yeah, Dr. K, I have a question. Yeah. Hello. Yep. Yeah, so basically, I was wondering, like you said, you build confidence by surviving failure. Yep. And how does it actually happen? Like shouldn't failure diminish your self-confidence like you shouldn't really, you can't build yourself up that way. And second question, like how, does that not depend on your perception? Like is perceiving failure a certain way? I mean, let me rephrase, sorry. Perceiving failure a certain way might make you more, might increase your motivation and perceiving it differently might reduce it. So how do you influence your perception of that? Great questions. So the first question was, doesn't, how does failure lead to, doesn't failure, isn't that a blow to your confidence? So the answer is yes. So I didn't say that failing leads to confidence. What did I say? Surviving failure leads to confidence. There's a big difference. What's the difference? Your perception, I would imagine, like if you think it's your way. Very good, right? So that now we go straight to your second question, which is that like, if a child falls and gets hurt and they don't feel like, if the consequence of the action was negative, it's gonna be like, it's gonna be a punishment and it's not going to reinforce the behavior. Confidence comes from surviving failure, right? It's from knowing that you're actually alive at the end of the day. So in my case, like when I was failing out of college, it did not increase my confidence at all. It was the knowledge that like one or two years after graduating that, you know, I was still me and that even though I had failed and that was a challenge, it was kind of like this idea that, okay, like failing hasn't actually destroyed me. That I'm still okay, I'm still smart, I'm still capable and I just need to change a little bit about like how I function. So surviving failure is a big difference from failing. And you're right that it has to do with your perception and understand that like failure in and of itself is going to be a negative reinforcer. I mean, it's not really the right term. It's gonna be a punisher for a particular behavior. So it's going to reduce a behavior. So this is exactly why processing and understanding your perspective is very important because you're 100% correct that you need to change your perspective on what failure means. So a lot of times when we get wrapped up in the ego, we look at one failure and then we just stop trying again. So if I fail a class, I'm not gonna try again. But if you play a video game and you lose a game, how does that change your behavior? You just queue up again? Exactly. So what I want you guys to do is think about that and observe within yourself, why doesn't losing a game cause you to quit playing? And why does losing something at life cause you to quit playing? And if you can understand within yourself why you can queue up again, that's what confidence is all about. When we think about someone who's confident, if I ask a girl out and she says no and I queue up again, you view that person as confidence. That's the very definition of confidence. It's not letting failure affect you and understanding that your worth as a human being is not necessarily tied to the outcomes of your actions. Just because a girl says no doesn't mean that I'm unlovable. But for a lot of people, that's what happens in their mind. I mean, there are a lot of reasons that a girl could say no. She could be in a relationship, she could have just finished an abusive relationship, she could be not interested in men sexually. There are all kinds of, or romantically, there are all kinds of reasons that people say no, but when our ego gets involved, it no longer is about that aspect and starts to be about us. Okay, yeah, that answers my question. Yeah, thank you. Awesome, man. Great questions. I'm gonna give you the boot to make room for someone else, okay? Yeah. Thank you. All right, anyone else? Yeah. Yeah. You can go, whoever that was. Oh, okay. I have everything on. You were talking about dealing with negative emotions. And I grew up being called stupid and whatnot throughout my entire life, and I've been failing through the course of my education, and that kind of led me to take two gap years. And I know that this is a big topic on its own, but I want to know how to specifically deal with those emotions, because even when I'm listening you talk, I get this anxiety where I'm like, I'm not gonna understand this. I'm not gonna understand this. It's like, I'm stupid, I'm stupid. Okay, so you're right that that is a whole topic in and of itself, and I can't give you an answer that you deserve in the time that we have left, but I'm gonna give you an answer anyway, right? So the first thing is it's good that you notice it. So I'm gonna ask you, is it deleg? Yeah, deleg. Deleg. So deleg, so do you, if you're noticing that thing, you are not that thing. Does that make sense? Yeah. So that's the first thing to understand is that you don't have to be defined by that feeling, even though that feeling is strong. It's just a feeling. It's not truth. And I know this sounds kind of bizarre, but oftentimes we think our emotions and our thoughts are facts. That's the way that we live and operate through life. They're not facts. They're just emotions and feelings. And if I'm watching a scary movie and I'm scared, that doesn't actually mean I'm in danger, right? And if I can think all kinds of thoughts, like I can think I'm a dumb person and my mind is telling me that, but that doesn't mean it's true. It's just my mind telling me that. So over time, what you need to do is learn, start to appreciate and notice that deleg is actually different. There's a part of you, there's like, there's some kind of, like I want you to think about it this way. You're the machine, you're the computer, and you have an OS and then you have programs. So the computer is different from the program and you have a program that's running in your head that says deleg is not gonna understand it. Deleg is not gonna understand it. Deleg is not gonna understand it. It's like Spotify, like playing in the background and you're trying to like have a voice chat with someone and Spotify is just gonna like be playing in the background. Then it's gonna be like really hard for you to function. But just because it's saying that doesn't mean it's true. And that starts, that recognition starts with noticing. And you can also kind of ask yourself, like what are other, like if you don't think, so just think about this for a second. If there's a voice in you that says that you're not gonna understand it, why are you still in the webinar? Why didn't you drop out? You're not gonna understand it anyway. Fair. No, I'm asking, it's not, I'm not making a point. I'm genuinely asking a question. Why didn't you drop out of the seminar? Because I want to try and understand. Beautiful. So there is another program in you that says, actually, I can make a difference. Actually, I want to try. And all you need to do is learn to prioritize that program instead of the one that tells you that you suck at life. Right. So you have both of those programs within you and then kind of like the angel and devil on your shoulder, over time, you can train yourself to listen to one over the other. But it starts with individual moments like this, where you chose not to drop out in the seminar. And pay attention to that. Think about like, why didn't you drop out? Did you think about dropping out? What happened in your head that kept you from dropping out? I mean, yeah, I did want to drop out of this call because I thought my question was not valuable. And it's perfect. So why didn't you, right? So now you really need to go back and pay attention to why you didn't drop out. Well, because I, do you want me to answer? Sure. Because I felt as if my issues, as you said, it's a common issue where people feel as if they, well, they doubt themselves. And then I felt as if since I have the opportunity here, I can ask for other people as well. Yeah, but so do you see how that's a different program? The content of the program is fine. What I'm pointing out to you is that there is an impulse within you that says drop out. And there is another impulse within you that says, no, let me do this as part of my dharma. Let me ask this question for other people. Even though people are gonna think I'm an idiot because I'm asking a question that's unrelated. But you did it anyway. You chose to listen to the part that was gonna make you feel like an idiot. And that's exactly what embracing failure looks like. It's choosing the things that are gonna make you feel like an idiot. That's how you build confidence. Because now, Dellig, you're a little bit more confident to speak whether you realize it or not. Because you did the hard thing, you made yourself look like an idiot and it turned out okay. Right. Right, so now you've survived looking like an idiot. How does it feel? Pretty good. There you go, right? It's that simple. It's not easy, it's simple. Okay? Great question, man. And more about developing confidence. Okay, we're gonna have time for one more. And then I gotta go. Yeah, my question is about the focus of meditation, of motivation. Okay. The way of shifting your focus from the thing that you want to the thing that you know is good for you. Beating the biological rewarding system of doing the things you know are not necessarily good for you. Okay. To put that focus on the things you know that are good for you and that you don't necessarily want like in the instant moment. Yeah, so I would actually disagree with your premise. How do you know that something is good for you? In the sense that it would make me, I don't know, healthy or would be an investment of time that I know would reward me with something that would. Do you know that? Well, I feel it. So where is that feeling coming from? It's from like, I don't know, a vision of the future that I'd like to go through. Excellent. So let me explain something to you, Vince. Fantasies about the future do not factor in to the likelihood of success calculation that your brain does. This is exactly my point. So I can fantasize about wanting a yacht. Like I wanna have a yacht. I want it to have like a very fast internet connection. I'm gonna get a gaming PC, stick it on my yacht and I wanna sail around the world while I game, while I'm on the ocean. And then I wanna dock in places and eat delicious local food. And what does that do to my motivation? Well, it just hampers it because it's kind of a unattainable ideal. Absolutely. So I think you're starting with a couple of assumptions that I don't agree with. And that's that you kind of say, there are some things that are good for me and there are some things that are not good for me. And how do I choose the thing that is good for me instead of like playing video games? And I think that your brain doesn't actually understand that those things are good for you. Because I think that they're like, they're not things that you feel. They're like random rational thoughts or fantasies, which don't actually lead to behavioral change. That doesn't go into the equation. So I think actually what you need to do is go back to that like defining what you want thing. So the likelihood of success calculation. So like what's a goal of, like what's an example of something that you think is good for you? Eating healthy. Perfect. So I even address this almost directly. Eating healthy is not a thing. How do you eat healthy? Tell me. You put your attention towards buying certain types of food and cooking certain types of meal for you. So what is the likelihood of success of that? The likelihood of success of putting your attention on buying healthy food is pretty high. But I'm not so sure about that, right? So like you, my point is that you offered a very complicated statement. Putting your attention on buying food and then cooking it. Yeah. So what you need to do is chunk up each of those because I agree with you that if you put your full attention on the buying, that becomes easier than quote unquote, eating healthy. But the problem is that your brain is like, there are a bunch of other things that you're talking about here. You're talking about, being willful when you go to the grocery store. You're talking about buying food and a lot of people buy healthy food. But then what happens? Then you have to cook it. You have to prepare your food. You have to put your attention. And how do people do it that? Well, it depends on the case, but I mean, if you buy the food, I guess it makes it easier. So let me explain something to you. If your answer is it depends on the case, your brain calculates the food, depends on the case, your brain calculates that is a low likelihood of success. If your brain thinks it depends, that's not a high likelihood of success. Does that make sense? Yeah. So therein lies your problem because you're talking about eating healthy and health is the example I use because it's a great example of how we actually poorly define tasks for our brain and our brain doesn't know what to do with that. Yeah. So I think in your case, I would start by really examining where you get the idea that there is like something that's good for you and something that isn't because I think your brain believes the exact opposite. It's like, we can do this weird fantasy, random amalgamation of tasks that has an unclear chance of success or we can play a video game. Yeah. Got it? Okay. I got to run. So thank you very much, Vince. We're gonna do, I'm gonna go ahead and I'm sorry, Mike, I gotta kick you, but we're gonna do five minutes of meditation and then I really do have to run, okay? So sit up straight. We're gonna do nadi shuddhi, which is alternate nostril breathing. So take your fingers and do this. So what you're doing is folding these two down. If you have to do this, that's okay. It's not a big deal. It can also be like this or something like that. It's not a big deal. Take your right nostril, block your thumb. I mean, block your right nostril. Breathe in, switch and out. Breathe in through the same nostril. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. In. Switch out. And now continue at your own pace. In. In. Go ahead and finish the breath that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. Let your hands relax. And now kind of notice once again that there is sort of a basic you. There is an observing self. That there may be thoughts, emotions, desires, conclusions. But those are all products from you. They're not you. And so let's go ahead and finish the breath. In. In. In. In. So all those little voices inside you that say don't bother or do this or don't do this is your choice whether you listen to them or not. And that from this place, how true or false they are becomes a little bit more clear. When you're ready, go ahead and come on back. Thank you guys very much. Day one of our webinar, we're gonna continue tomorrow. I don't know if we're gonna do tomorrow, maybe. We may talk a little bit about managing relationships in tight quarters given COVID. So like how to communicate better with people, things like that. Maybe something else, I'm not quite sure. So thank you guys very much and we'll see you guys tomorrow 9 a.m. CS Central Standard Time and we will upload, I think, to YouTube. So take care.