 It's kind of strange because the situation that you're describing is not a great one and yet your mind always turns to things that are positive and inspiring. Like everything you're saying leads me to believe that, you know, making a decision, like I, when I think about people who are struggling with decisions, I think, I don't think about someone who is learning lessons and has great role models and is filled with like love and appreciation for their family. Okay, great. So Jabri, tell me man, what's going on? Tell me a little bit about who you are, what's going on in your life and how I and Twitch Cat can reform you. All right. Let me turn on the light. Seems like it's dark. I think it's better. Okay, so first of all, hi everyone. Nice to meet you all. And what do we call you? You can call me JJ or Jabri. My real name is very hard to pronounce. I guess maybe you can pronounce it. But my real name is Jabir. Jabir? Yeah, Jabir. Jabir Hussain, Jabir Muhammad Ali, Kadim Suwar. That's my full name. Okay. But I'm from the Kingdom of Bahrain. I'm from the Middle East. I was born there, raised. I'm only in the US for college. A little about myself. Let me see. I speak three languages. I speak Arabic, Farsi and English. All of the former two, I didn't have a choice. My mom is Persian, my dad is Arabic. So they taught me the languages and I taught myself English for the most part from a young age. Actually, it's kind of, now I think of it, it's kind of a weird trait my family and I share. We're like polyglots. My mom speaks Hindi, Persian, Arabic, English, so does my dad. Yeah. How's your, the main question Jabir. Yes. Jabir? Jabir, Jabir. At the end it's like a Kessler in Arabic. Yeah. Yeah, so we don't point out that. If it's easier. Yeah, that's fine. We'll see. I may try it on. But how's your head bobble? Do you guys head bobble? In Bahrain? Like this? Yeah. Actually, when my mom speaks or my dad, both my parents, when they speak to Indians and Hindi, they head bobble. Yeah. It's kind of interesting because you change it depending on what language you speak. Yeah. I don't head bobble when I speak English, but when I speak one of the Indian languages that I speak, then I head bobble. Yeah. That's a pretty cool thing. Yeah. My brother also speaks the languages I speak and nobody in my family speaks English as well as I do just because I took upon myself to imitate the American accent and all that and watch Hollywood movies, etc. Arabic accents. I can do Arabic accent in English. Hello, my friends. How are you? How are you doing? My name is... Wonderful. Let's do it all in accents. You do the Arabic and I will do the Indian. Okay? The people in the chat will be very confused. So they will just think they are not watching an American stream. It's going to be from different countries. It's okay. It's going to be hilarious. Tell me Jabar. Jabar. Yeah. Jabar. Yeah. So how can we help? So to be honest, I... But are we actually doing the whole interview in accents? No, I think it's going to be too hard for me. Yeah. It's going to be too hard for you. I think it's going to be... It's going to throw me off. It's too hard for you. That's what she said. Yeah. I like you already, Dr. K. But so I think there's a plethora of things that I want to talk about, but since we're limited in time, obviously. I think the end goal that I do want to talk about eventually is like decision-making right now. Being a 22-year-old who's going to graduate next month and figuring out what I want to do in life and career-wise. But I think it might be better for you to get to know me and get to know kind of my history to know exactly what type of person I am and what applies to me. I don't know. It's up to you. I'm not the guy who would be best suited to. But if that's what you think we should do, I can do that. And then we can get to, I think, the crux of the matter. Or in some way. Okay, so tell me a little bit about who you are. Okay, so yeah, I'm Muslim. I was born obviously, like I said, in Bahrain. And I'm a Shi'a Muslim, which is a minority of Muslims. That's like 10%, I think. So yeah. Sorry, I'm trying to be organic. This is not in that plan or anything. I don't have anything in mind. I just want to like go with the flow. You know what I mean? So it's harder to be more organized mentally. And I don't want to use a lot of filler words. There's one thing that I'm practicing right now is not to use us and likes and it's hard. But I blame my American peers for that thing. But I was just going to say, yeah, go ahead. Go for it. No, go for it. I was going to say like, there's a lot of things that affected me in the past and my growth personally. Okay. Likewise. So we'll get right into it, I guess. Okay. So I've been mentally and physically abused by my father for, I would say, 15 to 16 years of my life. So 15 to 16 years because it stopped when you left for college or? No. He stopped. It started when you were like six. I guess I mean, started as far as I can remember, maybe like when I was three. And so I would say if you subtract that, it'll be like 13 to 12 years. So it stopped now when I was 15 or 16, rather. And it's not because I went to college, it's because he stopped abusing me and my brother. So I have three siblings. I have an older brother who's two years older than me. He's 24. I'm 22. And my sister who's 17 and a younger brother who's five or six, I forget. But yeah, so yeah, my dad was very abusive and I think it affected my growth. It has a way of doing that, unfortunately. Yeah. And so I think it's one of the reasons why I wanted to leave the country. Sure. When I say abuse, so usually, at least I don't know how similar Indian culture is to Middle Eastern, like it's at least Arabic, because it's a very honor shame culture, kind of. So in that sense, I think you can compare. But fathers, they want to raise men. Men can't be emotional. They can cry, etc., all that stuff. And so yeah, I've never seen my dad cry ever in my life. And if I did see him cry, I would cover his eyes in a funeral or something. So I've never seen that side of my dad, never seen the vulnerable side of my dad. And yeah, so a lot of kids, like my friends, they got hit by their fathers and just disciplinary thing that's like common in the Middle East. But the thing is, I didn't know that I was being abused. So I thought it was normal because I'm a child. I've never experienced a life other than the life I'm experiencing right now. So as a child, there's nothing else I experienced to compare it to. So when I asked my friends, you know, does your dad beat you? Like, yeah, he does. Okay, so I'm not the only one. But the thing is, he's not beating them with a shovel in the face. That's the difference. Yeah. And so or throw a rock in my eye. Yeah. Or throw a rock at full speed in my freaking skull. Right. I'm surprised I'm not, at least to my knowledge, I'm not damaged my brain. So it doesn't seem like it. Hopefully not. But yeah, so the abuse got really bad. He never hit my mom. So I think he knows his limits. Right. Like he doesn't hit a woman because that's like he's a very proud man or whatever. I don't hit women, etc, etc. I'm very abusive to her in other ways, like vocally. So the only source of affection I've ever gone was from my grandma, because even or somewhat my mom, but both of them were working for the most part. And so me and my brother were left home with the housemaids that would take care of us. And then, you know, when my dad comes back home, it's a gamble whether he's going to beat us or not, if you had a bad day or not. And I would try my best to go to my friend's house or whatever to not take the chance. You know what I mean? If he has a bad day. And sometimes the most common way that would cause him to beat us is if he's taking a nap and me and my brother are having fun playing a game or something and then we wake him up and that's it. We're f'ed. We can curse, right? We're f'ed. Yeah. Yeah. Curse away, my buddy. So yeah, like it got really bad. When I say abuse, it's not like slapping in the wrist or whatever. It's like punched in the face full force by a grown man. And my brother got it worse. Whatever I got, my brother got it twice as. Why is that? Because he could take it, I guess. So he's, at least when we were younger, so since the two years mattered when it comes to our growth, when I was like four, he was six. He was like way taller. Right now I'm the tallest in the family. I'm the largest. I'm even taller than my dad. But I think growing up, I think that's why, because my brother was taller. He was more, my brother was more of a brat. I was a very nice child. I was very quiet, very chill. I didn't speak a lot and disobey a lot. If my dad told me to do something, I'd be like, yes, sir. And I'd do it. My brother would be, he would make a sigh sound and like, what'd you say? You know what I mean? Sorry, I'm getting shaky talking about this. I don't usually talk about this, but. What are you feeling? Sorry? Shaky, like nervous. What is that? I don't know, like fear, because I'm thinking of the past and like the emotions that I used to feel that I trapped away for a long time. Is that what you're feeling? Yeah. Yeah. I think emotions that I trapped, that I tried to escape, I guess. I'm revisiting. And so. So, JJ, you know, it's kind of weird. It seems like you were able to tell most of the story about yourself without. It seems like the most emotion that you felt is when you started talking about your brother. Really? Yeah, I do love my brother. I mean, do you think things of are you feeling more over the last, like, let's say 60 seconds or 90 seconds as opposed to the first part? Yeah. I'm not sure if it's because of my brother or because I'm getting more and more deeper into the conversation. Yeah, I'm not sure. But it could be. I do love my brother. I think. Actually, now that you bring it up, I always had a soft spot. So like, even if I do something wrong or if my brother does something wrong, let's say like he beats me or something. I would feel bad because I would know if my dad finds out he's going to kick his ass. And so I would try to say like, no, I just fell or something. That's how I got the bruise, you know, because I didn't want my brother to take the fall and get beat up for it. And so a lot of times, like even like two of my stitches, I got I've been stitched six times. Not a miss for my dad. But two of them went for my brother and not because he beat me, but because he did an accident, like mistakes. So we're playing hide and seek. And I was going up the closet and I want to hide with him in the closet. And as I was climbing up, he was tickling my armpit. And then I was telling you, stop. Like I was laughing so hard. He wouldn't know I was serious. Like I'm losing my grip. And I'm like, stop, stop. But he wouldn't. I was laughing and he thought it was funny. I end up slipping. I felt like full force on my back. And then the inertia or the momentum drove my head back and hit the corner of a wall. And then I got stitches in the top of my head. That's one way he got me stitches. Another way he threw like a sharp object that landed on my head that didn't priest my brain. Thank goodness. Got stitches because of that. But both times my dad to this day does not know that he caused. Because I didn't tell. And so yes. Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. Sorry. I if you let me, I will talk forever. That's the thing. You can stop me. Yeah. I mean, do you talk about this stuff often? I've only speaking. I've only spoken about it once with my therapist. Okay. How long? therapist? For a year. How's that going? It's going pretty well. She diagnosed me with PTSD, which I don't really think I have just because. So just fast forwarding like after. So going back, like my dad, he stopped abusing us when he made a friend, made a friend, but like started talking more to one of his closer friends, a very religious Muslim. And he's known him ever since he was a kid. And he was like teaching him to be a better Muslim. And like you have to teach you have to like treat your family well, etc, etc. And so after that, my dad stopped beating us. And you know, there's two there's two ways one could, I guess, respond to this. One way would be like, I don't forgive you, dad, for what you've done. And the other way is like the other ones like I forgive you and I just want to move on. Have a better relationship with you going on because now he's a good father. I don't complain about him. He's a good dad. So is he a good dad even when he is abusing you? Yeah, I would say he like good dad, not in a sense that he was emotionally available or but he did take care of his family at the end of the day. So like he he the only reason so so like the two responses I said, like forgiving him and moving on and not forgiving him. That's kind of describing me and my brother. I forgive my dad, even though my dad never asked for forgiveness. I know deep down inside he regrets the things he's done. But my brother to this day is not forgiving my dad. And so I forgive him because I know my dad has went through the same shit as we did. He has. JJ, you know what I think we're talking about today? What are we talking about? I think we're talking about your brother. Really? Yeah. How do you feel about that? I actually don't know how I feel about that. Let me ask you something. Do you do you feel like your brother protected you from your dad? Yes. I can see that. Yeah. Yeah. My brother's always been there for me. Like he's he's been a person that I can depend on at all times. So he's a type of guy that would drop everything to to help help his family out, especially me and my mother. He's like he's like the second in charge basically. So it sounds like in a lot of ways, your your brother is what a dad is supposed to be. Yeah. True. Yeah. Yeah, he was like I'm still I'm very close to my brother. Actually, before I came to his call was talking to him asking me like, what's up back home? You know, how are you doing? Because he just he just finished his master's degree. He got his degree yesterday. So I was congratulating him and all that. So how's he doing? He's doing well. So far, there's a lot of things that he's been doing. So far, there's a lot of things going on back home that are not good. And so he has to take care of that. And he's been stressed. Well, this is going to switch gears real fast. But my mom's recently found out that my dad's been cheating on her for the past 10 years. So she wants to get a divorce. And she's been emotionally broken. And my brother has to be there for her, etc. She's like doing very she thought very negative. She had negative thoughts, like almost suicidal, etc. And my brother, I'm like, you got to be there for her, etc. So he has more things to worry about because he wants to get a job. Because my family is financially struggling because of all this. And I'm not getting any college. I'm not getting any scholarships or whatever to attend here. Like my mom's taking out loans to support me coming here. So my brother is very stressed, but I know he can handle it. And yeah, that's how he's fine. He's just worried more about my both worried more about my mother than ourselves. Because like our mom is like very, very, very important for us to us. Yeah, I'm going to just think for a second. Is that OK, JJ? Yeah, of course. So, I mean, I'm going to just start tossing stuff out. I think you mentioned that you're looking for guidance about what to do after you finish college. I think we're talking about your brother. I think we're talking about his capability that you know he's capable. I think we're talking a little bit about you shirking your responsibilities by letting him handle things. I think we're talking about whether you should go back or whether you should stay, whether you should prioritize your own career. We're talking about whether you should put your life ahead of your family's and we're talking about your guilt in terms of letting your brother handle what maybe you're a big man enough to handle now. I agree. We're talking about exactly about that. Yeah. So right now, my dad is pressuring me to find a job in the U.S. And initially, so I'm taking an extra semester. So this is I was supposed to graduate in May, but I took an extra semester to minor in business because I didn't know what I wanted to do. And it seemed like everything was moving too quickly and I didn't have a chance to make a choice whether if I want to go back home or stay here. And so since I had a student visa and it's hard to obtain, I was like, I'll take advantage of it and take an extra semester. So I don't know what I want to do because everybody's advising me, even my mom, my brother, every time I stay there, get a career. Jobs are harder to get or good jobs are hard to get in the Middle East. It's full of nepotism and all that stuff. And so I'm like stuck. I'm like in a rut. Yep. So I like there's a lot of there's all the selfish reasons for me to go back home. Like, I'd admit, like it's going to be more comfortable for me because I'm my country, a small country. I know everything about it. I'm getting more comfortable in it. My friends are there. My girlfriend is there. So it's easier for me just to go back home and get the degree. I'm like, hey, tell people or employees I studied in the US. I'm an asset to your company, etc, etc. Another option B is for me to stay here like everybody is telling me to because there's a bit of opportunities for me. And even if I like my dad says, even or my brother, both of them are saying even if I don't end up living in the US, at least working for a year or two is going to help my resume immensely going back. That I have that international experience basically, you know, so that's that's where I'm stuck. I'm looking for jobs. I've been applying. I actually got a response today from one of the careers. And so like my major is computer information systems. So it's like a lot of coding and stuff with some business on the side. But the thing is, I'm not passionate about programming. I'm good at it, but I just don't like doing it. And, you know, so that's something I'm struggling with as well. So, JJ, I mean, I think like I mean, we can talk about computer information systems in your career and all that stuff as much as you want to. I don't think that's why you're coming here today. I think I think what we're talking about today is selfishness versus sacrifice. And I think we're talking about your struggle about whether you should go or whether you should stay and and who gets helped and who gets left behind. Yeah. So fill that in like I'm just tossing out words, right? I'm tossing out like themes, but I don't know. I think your way forward and I don't know if Twitch chat is going to understand like what what I mean by that. It's clear to me that you understand what we mean by that. I just don't know if we've laid things out and Twitch is following along or if it's just like too vague. OK, so so yeah, tell us about that. Fill in the gaps for us. So if I go back home, I'll be able to. This summer I worked part time. I went back home the past summer. I worked back home as a videographer. That's my passion. I like doing video stuff, video editing and all that. And so I worked part time and my boss offered me full time. So if I go back home now, I will get a job. That's not an issue. And I can like my mom will feel like some weight is off her shoulders because she doesn't have to financially support me being away. And my sister, who is studying in the Emirates, she wants to be a dentist. She's also like my mom selling her jewelry and all that just so she can support my sister right now. And so if I leave, if I graduate and go back home, that's one less person she has to financially support. And that's going to help her a ton. And I can get money and I can work and I can pay off her, help her pay off her loans and debts. Right. That's one thing I can do for my family. If I stay here, that means I will still need more financial support. Even if I graduate, I'm not going to get it immediately once I stop working. I might even just get an internship, an unpaid internship by staying here. And I will still need financial support. Sorry, we just cut out there for a second. Keep going. Yeah. So what was the last thing you heard? So you were saying something about even if you stay here, you're going to need some degree of financial support and that I didn't catch the details around that. Yeah. So I'm still going to need financial support because I might get an unpaid internship position. So I will still need support from my family to get an apartment and all that for the duration of the internship. OK. And then that might get me a job. Why do you feel like you can't get a paying job? Because getting a visa, that's what... Ah, gotcha. Never mind. OK, so fill it in. Go ahead. Yeah. And so if getting an unpaid internship in the long run means I'll get a visa from the company and followed up by a full time position, that's a less risky route for me, even if I have to get some financial support early for the duration of the internship, which is probably three months. But it's also a risk in a sense because I don't know how guaranteed a full time position will follow up after that. Yeah. But it's still going to be good for my resume. I think it's a win situation. If I get the internship, I get the work visa. I still have... I can make connections. I can have it on my resume and I can go back home with a powerful resume. So that's the sacrifice. If I stay here, that means I'm sacrificing the... like, helping my family out by being there for them. I can drive back home. That means I can help my mom get her stuff. I can have to go drive around everywhere. I can do a lot of things by being there physically and getting a job there. But it's not going to be the best career choice for me personally. That's the trade off. So you mentioned your mom is financially supporting you. Does your dad work? My dad retired. My dad had a successful career and he retired very early. He retired when he was 40. He's 50 something. He retired in 1933. Even though he had more opportunities to make a lot of money, but continued to work. And he chose not to because he values... He says he values his life and he wants to do the things he wants to do. Which seems to be fishing every weekend. Going fishing every weekend. But what he's been doing recently, he built an apartment building. So he's a landlord now. But he took a lot of loans for that from his friends and from the bank. And now he has some tenants. And he's currently working on paying loans back. I'm just a little bit confused about... You talk about your mom and dad as if they're separate financial units. They are. Yeah, that's the issue. My mom always supports... My mom works at a bank. She works in HSBC. She was like the backbone of our house. She would support the house by bringing food every week. Groceries and all that. She supported us in school. Because my dad didn't want us to go to private school. He wanted us to go to public school. My mom was like, no, I think private would be better. And he's like, okay, if you want to do that, you're going to have to pay for the private school. She's like, fine. And she did it. So my mom is a hell of a woman. She's amazing. So she has been supporting... Abandoning her must be hard? Yes, that's very hard. And she... I feel bad because I'm helpless. And in case of helping her financially. I want to be successful in order to get her the car she wants or whatever she wants. Because she's been... I mean, we don't have time for talking about her life. But her entire life has been a sacrifice. She's been sacrificing for the sake of her own family. Her parents financially. And then now for her kids. She never had time for her own. How do you feel about that? I feel sad. Every time I pray, like my Muslim prayers, I pray for her all the time. So she deserves a lot. And you know what bothers me? When we talk about religion. She's like, I don't know if I'm going to go to heaven. I might go to hell. I'm like, mom, if you're going to go to hell, there's no way I'm going to go to heaven. So give me a chance. Tell me you're going to go to heaven just so I can think I can get a chance to go there. Because if I get to go to heaven and you get to go to hell, God has done something wrong. We have to switch places. You know what I mean? She's an angel. Yeah. She's supporting me financially. She works at a bank. She's still the only working person in the family. And she's very stressed. She's a good boss. And she works well. She's good at her job. But it's taxing on her because I see her working every night from home. She's like a workaholic. And she has the things that are on her eyes. Blackness on her eyes showing that she's tired. She never gets sleep. She sleeps like three or four hours a day. She's always tired. So she financially supports me. And my dad also has been taking money from her as well. Like, hey, I need this money for the building and I'll pay you back. And sometimes he doesn't pay back. And it gets annoying with my mom. And my dad's like, yeah, I'm doing it for the family. Et cetera, et cetera. And so with the whole... I feel really angry because I feel like my dad can be very hypocritical. So I don't understand how when you changed to be a better father, you couldn't change to be a better husband. And you still maintain to cheat on my mom after you changed. I don't understand that. Dad sounds like quite the asshole. Yeah. But he's very wise. He's a good... My dad is very wise. He's very wise. Some of the life lessons, I remember him teaching me things that I still remember to this day. Like what? For instance, we were in the car one day. And my dad asked me, I was like eight or nine. And he asked me, do you want to be... What do you want to be in life? I want to have a lot of money. And he's like, how do you want to do that? And I said, I don't know. I'm going to make the best video game ever or something like that. I forgot the answer. And he says, look at the building. He loves teaching by examples and metaphors. And he likes asking questions rather than teaching me something like this is how you do something. He likes to ask me questions and he makes me ponder. Like, wow, I see what you mean. Like you see this building. How do you get to the roof? Do you just fly up to the roof? And he's like, no, what do you do? You take the stairs or you take the elevator. You go step by step. Exactly. So don't think about life the way you're thinking, I'm just going to make a video game and I'm going to be rich. It's not how life works. You got to take the stairs. It's going to be tiring, especially if it's a tall building like the one you were asking. Millionaire is not an easy task. So that's one of the things I remember. Another thing. Do you think he climbed the stairs? Yes. My dad has had a terrible life, I would say. And this is one of the things, one of the choices. Remember when I said I chose to forgive my dad even though he didn't ask for forgiveness? The only reason I was able to forgive my dad is because my mom told me about his upbringing. And his upbringing was very bad. So like his dad married three women, not at the same time. The first one passed away very early. So he married another woman. Shortly after she had a lot of kids and she died as well, giving birth to her last child. And then he married my direct grandma and they had a lot of kids. So his father was about in his 60s when my dad was born. And he was very sick. And so my dad didn't have a father figure. Right? So he was very sick. And so he was very sick. And so he was very sick. And so he was very sick. And so he was very sick. And so my dad didn't have a father figure. Right? He never had a father figure and he had older brothers. So when he was born he had brothers that were like in their 20s. And so those were the ones who were taking care of him. And they would beat the crap out of him. So like as bad as he would beat us. They would hang him on a ceiling fan like a pinata and smack him. That's how bad he got smacked as a kid. And so he's a, my dad is a very handy man. Like his family was dirt poor. And so he was very sick. And so my dad was very sick. And so my dad was very sick. And so my dad's family was dirt poor. He would go to the bike repair shop and look at the garbage in the bike repair shop and get like pieces. Like spare parts for a bike and make his own bike. On his own. He would learn on his own. So anything you can throw at him he can fix. Car, engine, boat, engine, air conditioning, whatever. So he was a survivalist. And that's why he became successful. Because he was the only one who finished school from his early age. JJ, you have a lot of positive things to say about everyone in your family. Yeah. How do you feel about yourself? I feel like I can't catch a break. In what way? Like the abuse when I was a kid. And then I was also very obese as a child. I was very fat. And I was very fat. And I was very fat. And I was very fat. And I was very fat. And I was very fat. And I was very fat. I lost most of my weight back in... I lost most of my weight back in... I was 250 pounds? Yeah. How did you do that? I got to... 2015 I used to walk every day. For half an hour or to an hour. And just eat better. Somebody's sending sound off. Is my sound okay? Hello? I can hear you fine. Okay. Yeah, I'm not sure. So you say you can't catch a break. Like in what way? Like I don't feel like... Like all my life I've been stressed. I don't feel like I've ever felt like relaxed or content with where I was. With where I was. Like I'm going through a hair loss right now. Like I'm going through a hair loss right now. My dad is bald. So I'm guessing it's genetic. But he lost his hair. He started losing his hair in his 30s. I started losing my hair when I was 18. When I came here for college. Okay. And so I'm sure you know the concept of halal food. Like kosher halal. I don't have any halal food here. And to the chat if they're confused. Halal food is basically permissible food for Muslims. And so there's not any halal meat here in college. So I became like a vegetarian almost. I just eat salads every day. I was very malnourished when it comes to proteins and stuff. And so my... I was very malnourished when it comes to proteins and stuff. And so my hair loss was accelerating. And that really like hurt my self image. And so my hair loss was accelerating. And that really like hurt my self image. Because I used to have thick hair. And I used to be proud to take care of my hair and all that. And I'm losing it. But at this point I really don't care about my hair. Like you know I've gone over that. So I'm... Okay hold on. I'm sorry if I'm all over the place. My brain is all over the place. It's not your fault. So first let me tell you what I'm seeing. Okay so like you painted me a picture that is overwhelmingly positive and loving. Right? So like you're talking about this sort of desperate situation. But when I hear you talk you're smiling a lot. You're talking about how inspiring and sacrificing your mom is. How inspiring and wise your dad is. You're talking about how awesome your brother is. You know it's kind of strange. Because the situation that you're describing is not a great one. And yet your mind always turns to things that are positive and inspiring. Like everything you're saying leads me to believe that... You know making a decision. When I think about people who are struggling with decisions. I don't think about someone who is learning lessons and has great role models. And is filled with love and appreciation for their family. That usually leads to sort of some sense of security or direction in life. And yet you're talking about positivity. Like even... I mean you're kind of saying... You kind of say like oh I'm angry with my dad. And then when I kind of reflect that back to you. I'm going to say like it kind of sounds like an asshole. Like your mom is working double shifts and supporting you. And he's out fishing and taking loans from everyone including your mom. And then when I call him an asshole what's your response? Do you remember? Right. I try to empathize. You say he's a really wise man. Yeah. And on the surface I think it sounds like really saintly for you to forgive your dad. Right. It sounds like the kind of thing that your mom would do. And I'm just not getting like any negativity from you. But your life should be full of negativity. I feel like the negative thing right now... Or there's two things. If I... This is like... You're going to take a turn. But there's two things right? If I didn't think the abuse I was getting was normal. Because I thought it was normal. Because sometimes half my face will be purple because of the smacking I'll get. If I didn't think that was normal and that was I was getting abused. I would probably not be alive today. Like that's just being serious. I thought it was normal. I didn't know it was... I was being abused. I don't know. I thought everybody's going through this. I'll just be a bitch if I thought about suicide or whatever. Right? And so that's just me being real and that's how I was as a kid. Me looking back when I went to therapy... Yeah. So I'm going to jump in right there. So like I'm mentioning to you that you seem to be like very inspiring and positive despite this very difficult situation. And you say that it's difficult. But I'm not hearing you use the language of difficulty. Everything is like about growth and learning and wisdom and sacrifice. And then when I ask you that for some reason your mind goes to if I didn't know I was in such a bad situation. Or if I knew I was in such a bad situation then I may become suicidal. But I thought it was normal. That's kind of a weird thing to say in response to what I'm pointing out to you. So why do you think you said that? I think that was a precursor to who I am. Where I cut you off. Yeah. So like the second part I was going to say like right now I feel very... Like me thinking about the past and the things that I went through. It's kind of affecting me right now because I feel like I've blocked that part of my life off. Yeah. It's rushing to me like a flood. Sometimes I would cry when I would sleep or I'd dream about my dad beating me. Things like that. Which I... Some things I didn't experience ever. I have insomnia so I can't sleep without the TV being on. That's something I struggle with. I'm very lethargic now especially my last semester. I feel like very lazy and I just want to get a job and just I don't want to study anymore. Yeah. Yeah so like this is kind of weird. So like I don't know how to explain this to you but you know... JJ like you should have rage in your heart. You should have like frustration and anger and disappointment. I think you have guilt. I think guilt is the only thing you've got. That's the only thing I'm really picking up from you. But there should be a lot of other stuff. I understand that your dad... So I think it's a very mature outlook to have to be able to forgive your father for what he did and to empathize with him. And also like do you forgive him for what he did to your mom? No. How do you feel about that? I'm very mad about that. And he doesn't know that I know. See my dad really loves his kids and he cares about what we think about him. Yeah. He's a very proud man. Even when I argue with him or debate with him about any religious topic or whatever political topic, philosophical, he doesn't like losing and he doesn't admit when he loses and he tries to... I don't say he loses often. I think he loves you guys, but it sounds to me like he's quite narcissistic. Yes. Yes. Very much so. And so he doesn't want... He has a special place in his heart for me out of all of his kids. My mom told me this because he feels like ever since I was a child, I was a beating one. Like I mentioned earlier, I was a beating. I would say, yes, sir. And so he doesn't want me to know that side of him. He doesn't want to know the cheating side of him. Like he would care. JJ, I'm going to jump in. Okay. Yeah. Let me ask you something. What do you think is the right thing to do? For my mom? No. To divorce him. What is the right thing for you to do in your life? Take care of my mom. Okay. In what way? I want her to... Does that mean staying or going? She wants me to stay. That's not what I asked. I don't know how I can help. Let me ask you this. So everyone is telling you that staying is the right thing to do, right? What would your dad do in your situation? He would stay. That's why it's hard for you. That's why it's hard for you. Because your mom is telling you, don't come back. Your brother is saying, I can handle shit. And you feel filled with guilt because you're leaving him to pick up the pieces. Because he's the one who takes the blows. Right? He's the one who takes the blows for you. So he's saying, I can help out mom. You see he's stressed. You see she's stressed. And he's doing the thing that he's always done for you, which is like tank. He's the tank. Your mom is saying, you should stay. You should stay. You should stay. You should stay. What about your mom? Your mom is saying you should stay And you want to go and the thing that I think it makes it really hard you're telling me that Objectively, the right move is to stay for your career. I Think the reason that you can't bring yourself to stay is because that's your fucking dad would do That's the problem and so like if you stay you become him and You can say as much as you want to about him being wise But like I don't think you want to be him. He is the last person on this world that you want to be like you You once told me that like, you know You earlier said that like your mom is worried about going to hell and you were kind of saying if you go to hell Then I have no chance of getting into heaven and I think that there's like a there's like a flip side of that Which is like you don't think your dad should go to heaven No, I think my dad should go to heaven, okay I don't wish hell on anybody and this is gonna sound like this is gonna sound like very Controversial, but I don't even wish hell on Hitler even though like cuz no, I think I think that makes sense Yeah, I think eternal punishment. Yeah, I think on balance you can it's completely reasonable And I think you can be a person that really doesn't want to wish ill on anyone and at the same time I think there's a part of you That wishes that there's a lot of negativity towards your dad Mm-hmm, and I think that this this really comes down to like you don't want to be if he ends up in heaven You want to be in hell? Like it's like the flip of your mom and I Sense that current in you and I think the problem here is that it's it's like buried beneath so much like positivity and It's it's buried but beneath a lot of compassion and it's buried beneath a lot of maturity But I think it's there like I find it hard to believe that that it's not there. I think Give me a second. Let me let me like dig into My cuz I I'm bad at at like realizing my emotions I Think that I really do love my dad. I think you do too and And Part of my brain is saying you shouldn't because of the things he's done to you and it is doing to your mom Right, but I don't feel it Yeah, so here's the problem. It's not that you shouldn't it's that you should feel other things as well So I think the problem is that your feelings are one-dimensional Like the question that I have for you JJ is do you hate your dad? No, can you love and hate someone? Yes So then the question becomes why don't you hate your dad? I Think it's because I've only seen one side of him like like two sides of him, right? one side is him being very abusive and That's the side that I blocked for most of my life after that And the second and the second side of Him being a very very good father to me This is the side that I want you to think about for a second the side that act that side that tells your mom if You want our kids to go to private school you fucking pay for it and then the side that tells your mom Hey, I need some money for the business. This is for the family and then he doesn't give it back How do you feel about that guy? I Feel very angry about that guy. Do you hate that guy? Yeah, it doesn't like it doesn't it doesn't go with the guy I see and that's the problem right I Hears the stories about him. I hear the stories about him I've don't I don't see him doing the acts because I Can only have one type of relationship with my father and that's father to son I don't have a wife to husband relationship with my father Obviously because I'm not his wife, but you know, I'm just his son So the way he talks to me is different than we talked to my mom And so I only hear from my mom and I feel angry and I empathize with her but then when I When time goes on I go I'm back to squirm which is I love my dad Yeah, so I think that you have to understand the negativity like the thing that's buried here and the thing that's hard for you I think is the absence of negativity you feel some degree of guilt. But like I think at the end of the day You know, you've got a first of all understand that like the reason that you don't want to stay is because that's your dad Because that feels like the wrong thing But like you've got to come to terms with that and that it may not be just because it's what your dad do doesn't mean That it's the wrong thing. But I think the reason it feels like the wrong thing is because it's what your dad would do Like you have to understand that staying doesn't mean becoming your dad Yeah, I do I do Not want to be like my dad so and I told my mom this like when she had my baby brother I was this was Yeah, I was like 16 17. This is right when the abuse stopped and Like I told I told my mom I never if I ever have kids. I never want to hit them ever Because I know how how that feels How that feels right I don't think that's the emotion I'll ever forget And so when my brother was born I made a vow to myself to never hit him I'm the only one in the household who's never hit him Even my mom like when I say hit I don't mean like he's been like abused like he's like smack in the hand or the maximum that I've done is yell at him and so there was a very hard warming moment for me, which made me cry and I Asked my brother and this is like I got like me. This is like a PTSD thing There's no way I and I understand why my therapist brings up PTSD, but when I asked my brother like Why do you love me? I said you love me said yeah, I love you so why do you love me say cuz he's you never beaten me and like wow like imagine loving someone because they have not beaten you they don't love you because Mean me I'm sure he loves because I'm nice to him and all that like I buy him Like but the first thought he thinks like initially as a kid, right? He's my kids are very honest Okay, you're saying a lot of wise stuff, but I think your your mind is circling around the problem Everything you're saying like what did you just tell me? Like what is that story? Me not wanting to be like my father yeah, and it's also inspiring and positive So, I mean I think you're you're just you're swimming in positivity Which I think is like very like it's bizarre It's like sort of a it's a very mature thing to do But I think it's actually holding you back and that's causing you a problem because you're saying like I don't want to be like my father I don't want to be like my father, but what you've got to start doing is like stop living in comparison to him Right, you have to make a decision about whether whether you go or you stay based on your life in your family what you want to do and And you have to really sit down with your mom and your brother and like understand that like you're leaving like that the problem with Like you staying here is that you're leaving them So, can you make that can you make that sacrifice is it okay to like leave them to manage their own shit? Because you're filled with guilt and it's guilt that's causing you to go back and generally speaking You know, I think it's it's good to put your your family first like I think that's an important thing and it's an important part Of your dharma. I just wonder For for if you go back today How much can you support your mom if you go back two years from now? How much you can you support your mom? How much can you support your brother? and that's why I That's the conflict right because if I go back now I can short-term help them But long-term I can do way more by staying here and helping helping Yeah, so, I mean, I think that's the conflict but I think if you want to resolve this conflict You've got to understand the negativity because you understand the positive part of it very well There is another issue to it though so like When it comes to my degree and my passion that's another struggle I have or conflict I have because Like I said, you know, I'm graduating with a computer information systems degree, but I'm not passionate. I'm good at coding But I don't think I like it as a I would like it as a career I'm more of a problem solver critical thinker, etc. I really love philosophy So like I like, you know reading by Immanuel Kant or Nietzsche or whatever But so so and I do like video doing video You know, that's one of the things I I'm passionate about been doing it since I Was 12 I used to edit called duty montages On my crappy laptop and put them on YouTube and I used to teach as a 12 year old actually This is funny. There's one of videos I made on YouTube is still up there It has like 80,000 views and I was like 12 teaching somebody how to convert an mp4 file So I can so you can use it in Windows Movie Maker So I have a passion for video but it doesn't pay well and it's hard to get a job for a video But I have a degree in something that pays well But I want something in between I like I want to do something in business That's why I'm minoring in business like management or something because I feel like I can lead people. Okay, so JJ listen. Yes, I don't think you're gonna get the kind of Satisfaction that maybe you were hoping for because I I think you're starting around the issue I think you're starting around the issue like I keep on saying the same thing to you and you keep on changing the subject What am I saying to you? That I should stay here. No I'm saying that you've got to grapple with your negativity But I can't it's hard. I don't know. That's why the fuck that's that's exactly why you keep on talking about other shit So like I want everyone to understand this when there is a hard decision you face Your mind will run to anything it can to complicate the situation You'll add as many variables as you can to the equation You're gonna make any time you're faced with a difficult decision that you don't want to make Your mind is gonna try to add as much complicating shit as you can because then you could like you start talking about oh But I want to like do videography and it's my passion and like but this pays better Like what should I do because like I'm telling you like like JJ your problem Is that you have to decide whether you want to be an asshole to your family, that's your decision Because that's what it's gonna feel like And you have to decide like do I want guilt and the feeling of not being an asshole To like control what I do Or can I come to a place where I can say like, okay I'm gonna stay and acknowledge that I'm gonna leave my my brother and my mom behind But I'm really doing it for them and like it's gonna feel bad for a while and I'm not like my dad That I'm really doing this for them and not just for myself. I Think I've come to accept that The rest of it I think is details I mean, I think you can you can come up to whatever kinds of other things you want to talk about like Oh, like should you follow your passion or should you do what pays? I mean, I think in your position I would do what pays and then like do my passion on the side Like that's what I do. I don't think like you can I mean I like I have a job and Then I do this because this is my passion. I Don't think the two are mutually exclusive and I think if you get if you get good at your job like if you're gonna work in like CIS like I imagine that involves some amount of coding and you're gonna probably be paid like Hourly or based on stuff and I think if you're as good as you say you are You could probably get paid for 40 hours a week and work 20 and on 20 you do videography on the side Like that's the whole point behind getting a salary job is you get really really good at it And then you do your own shit on their dime. That's how you game the system So I don't think this is like an either or I think you're 22 Yeah, you're 22. You've got 40 years of work ahead of you and you can develop your passion Start making like I don't know if you know this but like people get paid a lot for video editing nowadays You know, you can make a lot of money like through videography You can be like a contract videographer on the side and and have a day job that pays your bills because that's your Dharma That's what a man does, right? Your mom needs your help. So fucking to help her Mm-hmm, and I don't know where to go Yeah, so, I mean, I think you're you're gonna figure that out like so I think I get what you're saying in terms of uncertainty So the other thing is you're religious So like is Allah in your corner? Is he helping you out? Yeah, okay So have some faith in that Right like you could decide whatever you want to but what makes you think you have it like why do you think you have control The thing is I don't feel like I have control yeah, so you just choose you make a choice and you deal with the emotional fallout I Feel like time is running out though, like yeah, November 20th. Yeah, I graduate December. So you make a decision No, what's the problem with making a decision JJ? Commitment Yeah, I mean commitment. I think the bigger problem is you're afraid of making the wrong decision Yes, that's the big one. That's the big problem So like you can't make the wrong decision though Why can't you make the wrong decision? Because they're all lead to good things Maybe because you don't fucking know like how can you blame yourself for making the wrong decision if you don't fucking know? Yeah, I'm also I was gonna say I'm also a very Pragmatic person and so I try to A part of me it says there are every human being Has a limited number of routes they can take in their lives, right? You could have been a barber and not a psychiatrist right sure you That's a route. That's a possibility. What's your mind doing right now, JJ? That's taking me away from the issue absolutely But it is a struggle though, right of course it's a struggle because I think I have so many possibilities I want to here's here's the problem JJ. You're trying to figure this out so that there's a right answer The reason you're paralyzed is because you will do whatever kind of pragmatic calculating statistical philosophical Psychological you will just Chew this stuff up until you come out with the right answer. The basic problem is that you're uncomfortable with uncertainty Yes, I don't like not having the answer. So that's what you've got to grapple with Like you've got to just understand that like this is not gonna get fixed You can try to like read a manual con all you want to you can talk to some fucking psychiatrist on the internet And like you like you're coming here and you're hoping that someone is gonna give you an answer so that you can make the wrong Right decision if you if you're this is for you and everyone at home The way to move forward in life is not to find the right decision. That's like the like risk-averse strategies are not how you become successful You become successful by doing and then like learning damage control. It's not prevention It's damage control if you want to be successful in life, just get really good at damage control Can expand on that? What do you mean by damage control that when you fuck up, you know how to fix it? Like I I don't think that there's an objectively right answer here even there's there's not even a psychologically correct answer Like because if you stay sure your earning potential is greater But like the whole h1b visa situation is like that's up in the air man Like that's not a reliable bet like you could stay for a year. Everything could get fucked up it's really no way of knowing and So the thing that you've really got to do JJ is understand that uncertainty is a part of the equation that sometimes in life you just have to like make a choice and just see what happens and Thankfully, you're religious So somewhere along the way you've lost faith Like I don't know when that happened, but it's clear to me that you don't you've lost faith Like Allah is looking out for you so just Do what you're gonna do and understand that you could make the wrong decision and understand that whether you go So sometimes like for example You're gonna find your way as long as you try and as long as you keep at it And as long as I think you face your negativity But you're just you're looking for like a safe safe solution Like this is like you remember when you were a quiet and good kid, that's what you're being right now You're just being like quiet and good like how can I figure out like what's gonna make everyone happy like how can I figure Out how to not rock the boat like that's what you're trying to do in your life But your boat is in it's in like stormy seas. It's gonna rock Your fear of that is actually like the biggest problem like you've just got a face uncertainty fine So I'm gonna say something that's that's probably the most ridiculous thing and then unfortunately we're gonna have to stop soon But but that's I don't think it matters what choice you make Because I don't think you get to control what happens like I just don't think you do like I don't From the situation that you've laid out. I think it's a really challenging conundrum You're in I just I genuinely do not think there is a right answer Because on the one hand you have a high degree of uncertainty if you stay The h1b visa stuff is really up in the air So like there's no one's gonna tell you that that's quote-unquote the right answer And then there's gonna be like a high degree of uncertainty if you go like your career Options are gonna get narrowed quite a bit You could become a millionaire through like cutting YouTube videos by like you could do that, but you could do that either way Right. I think the thing that you've got to start doing is having faith in yourself that there is first of all acknowledging that there Isn't a right answer and there isn't a wrong answer This is a big problem that I see with all kinds of gamers is like they're not willing to apply to college until they know They're gonna get into the one that they want They're like, oh yeah, like I'm not gonna apply to college because like it's gonna be I'm gonna be ashamed if I don't get into like a good university So they want they want everything to line up to be perfect before they take action. It's not gonna work There's some amount of psychological stuff we can talk about Right, like you don't want to stay because you're abandoning your family and that's what your dad does and you're not going to be like him fine You could talk about that through that with your therapist. It's a wonderful revelation eye-opening and your situation doesn't change That's when I realized you actually don't have a psychological problem. You have a problem of uncertainty and fear You also have this arrogance that like you think that you can figure things out because you've been good at that so far, right? You figured out like how to act so that your dad minimized the amount of time that he hit You didn't just take chances like you don't take chances So that's what you've got to learn like your your barrier is one of like dealing with uncertainty and understanding that sometimes in life You have to roll the dice I know it's wholly unsatisfying for you, but that's the fucking point Because if you're looking for satisfaction like that's not going to happen The whole point is that you need to learn how to make decisions without satisfaction You're coming on here and you're saying like oh like but I don't know what to do now. Yeah, and you're not going to ever But you can't let that stop you from acting Do you have like any advice on how to Stay in the moment because i'm always a future-oriented person. I can never Yeah Watch the meditation streams, right? So meditation is the practice that brings your mind to the present moment And and we'll do some meditation today But I think like the challenge here is that you've got to you know, you've got to I mean, it's tough But you have to practice it It's a skill and I know that your mind is very future-oriented because you just love your mind can think about Possibilities and equations and how if you do this and then this can happen and then this can happen and then this can happen But if I do it this way this can happen and this can happen again this can happen If I do it this way this can happen this can happen this can happen your mind is spending all of this energy Going through hypotheticals and building fantasies in your mind and it prevents you from actually acting At the end of the day you're spent and you're actually not this is important to understand You're not any closer to an actual solution even though it feels like all of those thoughts are bringing you to a solution It's just like today where like i'm i'm pushing you to the solution and then your mind is like Oh, but I you I forgot to mention this and like even at the beginning you were like, okay I have to start off with a bunch of fucking context and you should watch my facial expression go back and watch it I was like, what the fuck I saw I I saw that I yeah, it's like that's no the context doesn't fucking matter But your mind can chew on that context. It's like it's like the meal that never ends For your mind and you just think and you think and you think and you think and you think and you think and you think and you think It's exhausting it's exhausting and it doesn't get you anywhere So just do make a decision understand that it could be the wrong decision and there's no way of knowing and have some faith Okay, that's what I got Well, thank you very much For what I didn't do anything I mean I came here for guidance and what did you get? I got some guidance on what? On being content that I can't Choose or or solidify any option that I have to just go with go with the flow, you know Yeah, just pick something that and if it's wrong you adjust If it's wrong you adjust that's the skill that you need. That's the confidence you need to have in yourself That if it's wrong you adjust And hey, I'll let you know in a few months what what choice let me know You can you can come back on stream and we'll see depending on the quality of your What continent you're on? Hey, who knows i'm gonna go to india my grandpa loves india Okay. Well if you go there then your internet connection will be just as it'll be unclear It could be as good as the u.s. Could be as bad as is barade. I have no idea what barade's internet is like but But listen this I will tell you jj. So first of all, I think you're an awesome guy I think you know, it's it's hard to go through what you've gone through and I think it's really remarkable It's kind of telling because next on we're gonna have feral and we're gonna talk to feral about Anger and trolls and the internet and holding on to hatred And I think you've done an amazing job of not being When you have every right to be and that's really commendable And I don't think like you're like your dad So I want you to take some comfort in the fact that I really don't think you can abandon your family Even if you try it's just not you just are not that person Yeah Um, and and that basically what you and your family are doing is they're they're rolling the dice, right? They're making a gamble And all of you guys need to get on the same page about like which way do you want? Like where do you want to place your bet? On going home or on staying and either one you can be successful either way And I think it just takes a couple of years to figure that out I don't think you're locking yourself into a career for the rest of your life You can do video and i'm serious like any kind of programming job. You can do your programming and then do shit on the side So I don't I think the problem is that you're thinking about an either or it's not an either or it's just about how to do both So I don't accept your premise that you have to choose between the two like you have to choose between the two like right now Sure, but six months from now you can be doing both you can find contracting jobs for cis You can do Contracting jobs for videography and you can make that transition Um Last thing the only reason I feel like I have to make a choice and I agree with you Like I can do either It's just easier to make a choice now because if I let's say I end up going back home It's harder for me to come back to the us and just logistics base is not like um, Finding it a hard psychologically hard to make a decision is just logistically if I go back home Home Getting a visa and convincing an employer. Hey, get me back to the us h1b visa over somebody else will be harder So being here in the us having connections and career fairs and all that You could tell me all the strategic reasons to make one better the other. I think that's fine I don't think you're gonna find an answer Yeah, no, I agree. Yeah. Yeah, so Don't feed that part of your mind Okay, okay. Just keep us keep us posted just know that jj I have faith in you I think you're gonna be okay and I I think that you're a good human being and it sounds like you're pretty smart It sounds like you just had a minor amount of brain damage. So you only speak three languages instead of four And you know so but that too is like that's you know, I talk about karma a lot You can talk about the will of Allah or you could talk about karma. I think it's all the same to me. Yeah So that's just how it is and i'm sorry that you know, there isn't an easy answer for you But that's what that's what Allah wants for you He wants you to be a put your big boy pants on and make a decision for yourself true Okay, thank you. Thank you. Good luck man. Keep us posted really. I want to know what happens Yeah, yeah, i'll be in chat for now as well. So okay here. All right. Take care. Bye