 They're looking for that one thing. No mom, of course. I don't hate you. Oh my god, mom. I'm so sorry Please stop crying and you pat my back Narcissism Dr. K's comments about narcissism have shaken me From the stream today. Dr. K talked about narcissistic tendencies and I realized that what he has described that he is describing me perfectly I feel as though this piece of information has completed a puzzle. I've been trying to figure out since I was 22 I'm now 38. So I'm probably one of the oldest people here and I'll tell you 15 years of anxiety and depression is no fun thing Manipulating people expecting special treatment expecting success without putting the effort in slow degradation of relationships Not caring about others, etc. False modesty and hoping for adoration It feels like a massive rock has been dropped on me I realized that my ego and expectations have been the root of so many problems in my life I've always known I have low self-esteem and I can see how that that low confidence Has led me to this bizarre state of mind where you expect the world for no good reason Dr. K, if you're reading this, please please please do a video about steps one can take to reduce this trait and take steps in the right direction I really need some guidance here. Any advice from other members would be greatly appreciated too. So let's start off So before we get to advice, okay, what we're gonna do is talk a little bit about Narcissism in in a kind of a weird way So the first thing that I'm gonna give you guys kind of a quick backstory, okay So I think what this poster was referring to last week on stream. We talked a little bit about how narcissism Manifests kind of in two ways, right? So if I have if I'm insecure about myself one way I can deal with that is to be arrogant So like I put on this like very like big shell that's like grandiose and I'm like, hey Everyone look at me. I'm so awesome and I need other people's adoration the other thing that sometimes happens That can result in like people sort of being Kind of manipulative and hard to deal with but they're not arrogant is For people to actually have like insecurity on the inside But then they still engage in all of these behaviors to like get other people to like like them But they're not like arrogant behaviors. They're like Softer behaviors, so there are things like excessive modesty You know like like sort of help seeking kind of behavior like oh, whoa is me behavior They have these emotional needs of insecurity where like they need to feel Loved and respected by other people and they just engage in like non arrogant behaviors to sort of get that kind of like reassurance from the outside and This creates a real problem in relationships because like Sometimes when you're with these kinds of people like they're not doing anything wrong, but you still sort of feel subconsciously manipulated and when you feel subconsciously manipulated Like if you start to blame them in your mind, you kind of like feel guilty So you're kind of in this situation where like oh man like this this person is Trapping me but also like making me feel like an asshole for being trapped It's kind of really hard to describe but like that's what I would kind of say So this is a weird kind of subtle narcissism. So today what I want to talk to you all about is like kind of the two types of narcissism, okay So to start off with let's start with kind of looking at yoga So what we want to do is we want to start by sort of understanding Narcissism and by the way that we're gonna understand narcissism is actually through a yogic Lens. All right. So in yoga we have Three parts of our mind the manas is our emotional mind The ahamkara is our ego and the buddhi is our intellect And there's usually like an interplay here where the the goal of the ahamkara is to be a bouncer is to protect us From feeling hurt. So anytime we feel hurt in our emotional mind The bouncer steps in and then goes to our intellect and like tells us to rationalize Okay, so the classic example that I use when illustrating this is I remember when I was in college my friends and I would talk about the ladies and then eventually one of us would like muster up the courage to ask one of the girls out and When we asked her out and she said no then something weird happened because then we'd start like Dissing her right like we'd start saying oh, she's not that attractive. She's not even that great. Oh, yeah I was like I was like, you know She's like I'm I can do better than that and we sort of do this weird kind of like Rationalization to like put her down and pump ourselves up. And so that's actually what's going on There is we feel hurt by the rejection and Then our ego steps in and is like, oh no, we're feeling hurt Let's feel better and then it goes over to the intellect and it's like hey come up with some kind of rationalization About how awesome we are and let's put her down and let's pump ourselves up I need evidence to support these two goals. Okay So this is kind of a quick primer. So let's take a look at narcissism So in narcissism what we're talking about is low internal self-worth So people with narcissism actually like the reason they're arrogant is because they actually have low internal self-worth And so this is where what we usually see right when we think about narcissism is like People who are narcissistic have to like advertise how good they are. So since you have low Internal self-worth what we have to do is we rely on external signs Of worth so if I don't feel confident in myself What I end up doing is like I'll go to like other people and I'll like I need them to Explain to me that i'm really really awesome, right? So when we think about the traditional narcissists We're thinking about sort of traditional narcissism. Okay, so like if we look at the features of traditional narcissism We're talking about stuff like arrogance Okay, we're talking about like showing off We're talking about being grandiose Right, so like if I don't believe that like i'm a good person on the inside What I have to do is like advertise how awesome I am If I don't think that i'm like a great person like and I don't have an intrinsic sense of self-worth I need to wear really expensive clothes I need to drive a really nice car because then I can show the world how much i'm worth I need a really big title at work. I need to have a lot of money Not only do I need to have a lot of money. I need to show people that I have a lot of money And sometimes we even end up with a thirty thousand dollar million dollar Millionaire which is someone who makes 30 grand a year but lives like a millionaire They rack up the credit card debt. They like drive nice cars They're like living the high life And you know, they're gonna make all their money down the road like they know that they're gonna be like they're gonna hit it Because they're so awesome, right? So we have sort of this traditional narcissism Which we can also kind of think of as thick-skinned So these people sort of seem thick-skinned because if you insult them, you know They're not going to be able to get away with it Because if you insult them, you know, they're not going to start crying. They're very overt Right. They show off. They're very also oblivious. This is what we think of in terms of narcissism They're so clueless the world revolves around them. They don't think about anyone else relating to this as exhibitionistic showing off Right. They're grandiose And if you also think about traditional narcissists, they they're they devalue other people So when it comes to dealing with other people they'll kind of devalue them, okay What these people do is they have to elicit reassurance Okay, so we're gonna end up eliciting reassurance because that's what you need. Right? You guys remember this We have to rely on external stuff so I have to like post stuff on social media And then everyone's going to tell me how awesome I am. I'm going to tell everyone I got promoted I'm going to wear these nice clothes and then when you get those compliments when people give you likes and stuff like that That in turn enhances your self-worth, but only for a time because it's external, right? So what these people end up with is sort of like this fragile sense of self-worth Because if people don't compliment your clothes and someone else in the room is like by the way you got promoted Oh, I just like started my own company So it's a very like fragile sense of self-worth that like can fluctuate very wildly Which is what leads to kind of this like bad behavior. Okay, so this results in bad behavior This is why they become arrogant and they devalue other people So if someone if I got a promotion and then someone else is like, oh, I just started my own company Then i'm gonna have to devalue that person to poop on them to make myself feel better because they're exposing my inferiority And remember the ahamkar doesn't want that it's the bouncer of the mind so it's like oh no This person is making me feel bad So let's not do that. So this is what people think of as narcissism. Make sense chat So now the interesting thing is that if we look at the pieces Okay, if we look at these pieces over here and we look at these pieces over here and we look at eliciting reassurance And we look at enhancing self-worth And we look at bad behavior there's actually another set of features which hits all of these Same things, okay And this is what this poster is talking about so let's go back to the top So let's talk about non-traditional narcissism. Let's take a look at our list chat and let's see if we can figure this out. Okay so thick-skinned What do you guys think these people are like? thin-skinned overt covert oblivious hypervigilant exhibitionistic in the closet or closeted Okay grandiose vulnerable and instead of devaluing they idealize Okay, so this is the the profile of a non-traditional narcissist. So let's run through this real quick. Okay So like when people insult you instead of fighting back you feel really hurt But still on the inside the reason that you have to fight back Like if if I get insulted by someone and I don't feel confident, let's say about my intelligence Right. What I have to do is I have to argue with them. I have to prove them wrong because secretly on the inside I believe that I'm I may not be very smart. So that's the traditional narcissist The belief is still the same in the non-traditional narcissist they still feel insecure, but instead what they do is they feel hurt they avoid Right, they withdraw So we'll get to these in a second But we'll get to like avoidance behaviors And then they're also so the the the traditional narcissist is overt while the non-traditional narcissist is covert So both of them once again are insecure. So how does the traditional narcissist deal with it? They deal with it by like advertising how awesome they are whereas the the non-traditional narcissist hides Right. I don't want people to see me. I don't want people to hear me I don't like oh my god, like everyone is like gonna realize how bad I am and we'll get to that in a second So then we get to oblivious versus hypervigilant, right? So the traditional narcissist is like doesn't think about or doesn't appear to be aware of how other people think or feel Whereas the non-traditional narcissist is hypervigilant. They're always paying attention to how other people are reacting and how they feel The traditional narcissist is exhibitionistic Kind of related to covert so like the non-traditional narcissist keeps everything on the inside and will occasionally show people things So instead of being grandiose, they'll be vulnerable and this is a big one chat So the traditional narcissist Places everyone else below them, right? So I am here And I need to put other people down here This balances things out whereas the non-traditional narcissist puts everyone up here. They idealize instead Oh, look at how crappy I am. Everyone in the world is better than I am So then this leads to manipulative behaviors via eliciting reassurance What are the behaviors that the non-traditional narcissists engage in? Let's look at this, right? So they avoid and they hide but they also Emotionally manipulate because you feel insecure about yourself. So you'll do things like seek reassurance You know, you'll do these like little like things that sometimes are quite frustrating to people they're like, oh are you busy Oh, you're busy today. Oh, that's okay I I know you have a real life worth living. It's okay. Don't worry about it. I'm gonna hang up now You go enjoy your life And then the other person on on the phone is like wait what what what what what's happening like wait what And so what they end up doing is they have this hunger that comes from their low self-esteem So what they'll end up doing is like all kinds of stuff being falsely modest like, you know Eliciting reassurance in some way but it's kind of like this sneaky kind of manipulative sort of like You know like woe is me and like you're so awesome and i'm so bad And they do that like all these things because when you say that to someone right it's not insulting like When you're dealing with an arrogant narcissist, you don't want to spend time with them because they're being an asshole to you And when you're dealing with a non-traditional narcissist, it's like you still don't want to spend time with them But you feel guilty for not wanting to spend with time time with them So you end up spending time with them anyway and like trying to convince them that they're awesome It's kind of this weird thing that like once again Sort of enhances self-worth What doesn't really enhance self-worth? Temporarily, but it doesn't really understand like it doesn't really address the insecurity because you're kind of manipulating them into Like, you know supporting you And so this is kind of an interesting pattern of non-traditional narcissism And it's it's interesting because the reason I call it narcissism is if we go back to the roots There are a lot of common factors, right? So low internal self-worth and relying on external sense of self-worth To buffer your internal sense of self-worth. This is the last key thing. Okay, this is going to be the last thing that ties all this together spends a lot of time Thinking about how They are perceived. So this is the last common element So in both of these situations if we're talking about what are the traits of narcissism? It's this box right here because both of these people at the end of the day 20% of their ram is spent Thinking about how other people are thinking about them Oh, does this person realize how awesome I am if they don't realize how awesome I am. I better tell them Does this person? Think about how pathetic I am if they don't realize how pathetic I am. I better tell them I better advertise I better get some Get me some of that sweet sweet reassurance And then like and so this is sort of like a good example of understanding like traditional and non-traditional narcissism So what are the key features here? And and what are we kind of talking about? So the first thing to understand is that not all narcissists are the same And we sort of have this idea in society that Narcissism is characterized by like arrogance and devaluing others and things like that But if we go to the roots of it, there's another subtle kind of narcissism and I call it narcissism But really from a yogic perspective, it's a an ahamkara. That's kind of bent out of shape Low internal self-worth so I need external reassurance from other people And then like since I need that external reassurance from other people like it doesn't matter how I get it I can go the arrogant route or I can go the pathetic route. They're both still the same thing, right? So I spend a lot of time thinking about how other people perceive me And so what what ends up happening is if you look at this person, why am I using the term narcissism? It's because everything revolves around them still right even though you feel really terrible It's like if someone doesn't have the time to talk to you today. It's like oh my god Like I am that i'm not worth anything Like they're they i'm not worth it enough for them to spend time with me Like i'm not good enough where it's like no it has nothing to do with you. It's because like this person is moving today Like it has nothing to do with you And so in both of these cases this mind that they have thinks that everything is kind of revolving around them, right? If someone doesn't have time for you, that's a personal insult or is justified Based on how little you're worth But at the end of the day like you're not considering them. You're just thinking about how they think about you And so that's kind of we call why we call it sort of traditional and like non-traditional narcissism Okay, and so it has these other features like being covert being thin-skinned being hyper vigilant Idealizing people instead of not idealizing people and this is why I like the sun script because if you Think about that kind of person. It's like is that person really narcissistic? Not really but they have features of an ahamkar or an ego that is functioning in a particular way Which is low self-worth on the inside. Therefore. I need self-worth from the outside and i'm going to spend a lot of time Figuring out how to get those emotional needs met no matter What strategy I use i'm going to get other people to notice and appreciate and tell me how great I am I can do it by pretending to be pathetic Or I can do it by pretending to be awesome, but it's still pretending and I still need it from other people You know a lot of people are going to be asking what do we do about it? So once again, I think the first thing Is to understand these patterns right like notice what you're doing Notice like what you do with people when you're feeling like emotionally needy How do you manipulate them into engaging in a behavior with you? Right. So like like and notice that kind of thing and the interesting thing is instead of like giving into that behavior Just notice the need and maybe be a little bit transparent with them and be be like hey, I understand you're busy I'm kind of feeling down today. Like do you have some time to talk and just be transparent that you have an emotional need It can be absolutely terrifying but Notice yourself first and then start to like give people the benefit of the doubt and let them participate in the relationship in a healthy way Which can be challenging So unfortunately, there aren't like tips. I mean I can give you a tip but it's like easier said than done So this is the kind of thing where there's like actually a lot more work that has to go into it Right, so we can diagnose someone with depression if someone asks me what are tips for depression? Well, there's like treatment for that, right? So in the same way like you can, you know work with a therapist work with a coach We have a section of dr. K's guides on the nature of self which is sort of geared towards Narcissism and self-esteem and sort of these ideas of like what is the true self and what do you think you are? And what's the difference there? Um, so we've got some of that kind of stuff in there So hopefully that'll help But I just wanted to kind of explain that concept because I know it's kind of weird that I called like Those kinds of people narcissists. So I wanted to clarify and also explain to you that You know, there's there's actually this like common route to narcissism which can manifest in two separate ways So the non-traditional narcissist is the same as a needy person potentially. Yes Right. So if we if we go back to the core of it an Emotionally needy person can sometimes have this kind of world revolves around them sort of perspective But I think that an emotionally there are other reasons why other people can be like emotionally needy without that ahamkar kind of thing So it's one of the things on the differential diagnosis of an emotionally needy person Are there other terms for the non-traditional narcissist? I'm not sure I think that sometimes people will Call them like covert narcissists as well. Like it depends on what the literature is That's why I like to use the yogic terminology because I think the yogic terminology still explains it the best Which is it's like it's ahamkar. It's like a sense of ego and a low sense of self-worth And when you start with that low sense of self-worth, you can get those emotional needs met through two different pathways How to recover from being hurt by a particularly manipulated narcissist Oh man, this is tricky Um, it takes a lot of work, but i'd say one really powerful thing that people don't tend to under utilize is actually forgiveness So once you get really manipulated by an emotional narcissist I'd say forgiveness and boundary setting are the two things that you need to do to like fix it Right, so you sort of understand And you accept that this person like doesn't have control over their emotional needs so they engage in manipulative behavior So like you know that like it's nothing personal. It's not like they tried to screw me over It's just they're hungry or thirsty and they're going to get their food or drink however they can And at the same time while you can forgive them for that and like let go of that anger and let go of that resentment through forgiveness You also want to set super firm boundaries Because as long as they are like you're letting them back into your life Like it's going to keep happening over and over and over again So this is also really confusing for some people but you can forgive someone and never talk to them again Forgiveness is about letting go of your own resentment and like not blaming them anymore And at the same time like setting a boundary like you can forgive someone and also like move on So i'll give you guys just another like simple example to drive that home So like let's say i'm in a romantic relationship and my partner cheats on me I can forgive him. I can say like, you know, I understand you made a mistake like I understand you didn't mean to and You know, you hurt me a lot, but I can forgive you for hurting me like I forgive you and also i'm never going to date you again This is where people get really confused because they assume That forgiveness means that we're wiping the slate clean and we're reversing time and we're back to square one right like But that's not necessarily the case you can let go of that resentment you can say like look i'm not gonna like i'm gonna go on And live my life And i'm not gonna hold on to this anger and like don't worry about it. Like you made a mistake I forgive you you go live your life. I'm gonna go live mine They're like wait, but I want to get back together. You're like, yeah, I understand you want to get back together, but I can't trust you. I can forgive you but like I don't trust you And i'm not interested in a relationship with you I don't hold it like you know, I I I wish you no ill will or malice like I hope you go and Find a healthy relationship and i'm gonna go find a healthy relationship, too It's just I don't think I want to do that with you. So someone's asking what's so let's let's understand a couple of things One is what's the point of forgiveness and second is what's the point of telling them that you forgive them? So the point of forgiveness, I mean sure you can sort of do it for them But like I really think forgiveness is powerful For your own benefit Because if we think about until I forgive what am I holding on to i'm holding on to anger. I'm holding on to resentment You know and you're allowed to hold on to that if you want to i'm not saying necessarily that it's Bad to hold on to them, but that's just where you need to make a judgment call Is this resentment interfering in my life? Yes or no? Right, and if the resentment is bothering you then like it's it can be healthy to forgive And then what's the point in telling them because they may be able to forgive They may be feeling guilty and they may want your forgiveness. They may be asking your for your forgiveness You're no one is entitled to forgiveness by the way, right? So forgiveness is entirely The right of the aggrieved party like the person who committed the sin or the crime Is not entitled to forgiveness of any way shape or form And so I would say you can tell them because you know that way they can move on with their life. It's good for them You know at the same time hold your boundary, right? Like Fool me once shame on you and i'm not going to give you the chance to fool me again Can you move on without forgiving I think so I know it sounds kind of weird But I think you can move on without forgiving right? You can say that you're you can accept so you have to accept. That's the key thing moving on is about acceptance You can accept That this person hurt you and that you've forgiven them and you let them go No hard feelings let go of the resentment or you can accept you know what i'm never going to forgive this person For the rest of my life, I will detest them and what they did And that's just like i'ma hold that it's going to be part of me like it's cool Like i'm going to go on and live my life and I can still build a healthy life But there is a corner of my heart in which I will always loathe and detest this person for what they did to me And that's okay. No problem And if people are skeptical about that because we don't hear that very much, right? So i'm a psychiatrist who works with trauma survivors And one of the healthiest things that i've ever realized in therapy because you don't get taught this Is like to tell a trauma survivor, you know what you want to hold on to your fucking hatred you do it You do it go for it. No big deal. I will support you You detest this person and you never forgive them and they they ruined your life Now I want to help you build rebuild another one. So like let's work on that, right? We don't want them ruining our life To like ruin the rest of your life did they absolutely ruin things for the first 28 years Yes But we're still going to rebuild but you can absolutely detest that person When they die if you want to go and you know, like don't go to the funeral and if you want to you know Flip them to go walk over to the grave and and flip them the middle finger like that's fine. You can do that You don't have to forgive them you can hold on to that hatred but We don't want their what they've done to you in that hatred to Prevent you from like building a life worth living right? You're 28 years old. You've got 40 years left They screwed you over for the first 28, but like let's do something about the next 40 And if you want to hate them for doing that to you, like i'm completely behind you. Let's do it Let's talk about how awful they are because they sure do sound awful. Yeah So when someone says I want those years back bro, that's that's where acceptance comes in because you ain't never getting them back right So you can be resentful over that and you can get stuck you can spend all of your time thinking about the time that you've lost And never looking forward And then your entire life will be spent in resentment Or you can acknowledge that time is over And this is where I should be looking and you can build something worth living How would you handle a parent? That's toxic acceptance slash forgiveness and boundaries folks Same answer all the time. We'll teach you a lot more about this. So we're planning Like something a lot more in depth about how to set boundaries and things like that But the short answer is like you accept like, you know, they're toxic and they're not going to change don't expect them to change You're just gonna you're setting yourself up for disappointment and frustration They ain't going to change You treat them like a force of nature Rain is going to be wet it's just who they are if you have a narcissistic parent Like that's not going to change like maybe one day it'll change and then Lucky you it's like winning the lottery My narcissistic parent is now capable of being emotionally available. Wow. I never expected that And at the same time like they're your parent, but they are the way they are So like, you know, you can get frustrated at the rain for making you wet or you can grab an umbrella and like Move to arizona where it never rains So I encourage everyone who's got toxic parents to like do your dharma is their child Right. So whatever that entails it can be very little or it can be a lot like i'd encourage you to like Try to be nice to them and try to help them if they need help and also like You know if it's like one if you see them once a year because it's christmas time because you're their kid and you're like, okay fine I'm gonna i'm gonna have a crappy christmas this year and i'm just gonna see them once for one week and they ask you I never see you this happens a lot right because like if you set limits with your parents anytime you show up They're like, oh my god. I can't believe you abandoned me. Like don't you love me? Like I only see you during christmas and then you stop and you ask them so like What's your understanding of why I come here once a year? They're like because you don't love me you you don't like me this is so like you're so mean you don't care about your mom And then and then you can kind of point out to them that like everything you're saying is about you Has it ever occurred to you that like I am a human being in this relationship? What do you think my needs are that I only see you once a week and then they're going to be super confused They're like just tell me tell me what to do. I'll do anything And that's when you say, okay If you were willing to do anything I want you to think about what my needs are in this relationship and tell me what you think they are No, just tell me just tell me this is the problem You're you're not even spending the energy to think about it Just think about it and tell me what you think I need in this relationship No, you won't tell me like why are you being so mean and you can say this is exactly why I come once a year Because anytime I have a conversation with you, it's always like woe is me And I I literally am unable to have a conversation with you I'm asking you to think about my perspective and i'm not seeing you being able to actually do that Which I don't blame you for it's fine. Like you are who you are and your grandparents You know weren't nice to you either. So like no big deal But if you want to understand why I come once a year That's why I come once a year because when I come here, I don't feel like I can have a conversation with you Like tell me how to have a conversation. I've asked you what to do. What did you hear me say? What did you hear me ask? You want me to what again just tell me i'll do anything I want you to just think about what my needs are in this relationship They're like, okay fine Will you stay longer? No I won't I'm willing to stay for four days. I love you mom, but I can't tolerate you It's the most I can handle And until you're able to understand my needs and like help support them in some way like I can't be here for longer than four Days, i'm sorry. I wish I I wish I had more stamina Is it so painful to be with me? Yes Yes, it is Oh my god, you hate me. I don't hate you. I just find you intolerable Right like i'm trying but like I need you to do more than what you're doing Right and that's where like sometimes you don't want to pull punches because that's what the narcissists do right you guys see that Have the narcissistic parent we just flipped to the vulnerable side. Oh my god, do you hate me? You're you're because you're you're you know, you're bludgeoning your parent with truth and then they play that card They're gonna find some way to emotionally manipulate you into like telling them that they're okay They're looking for that one thing. No mom, of course. I don't hate you. Oh my god, mom. I'm so sorry Please stop crying and then you pat them on the back Narcissism Non-traditional narcissism plus traditional art system. They can flip back and forth with whatever they need to get their fucking emotional needs met That's how it works Whatever they need They'll find a way to get it. So you don't give it to them. You lay your boundaries you encourage them to introspect You can also say things like here's what I think would be helpful. You're like, I don't know what to I don't know how to think About your needs. I don't know what you want. You can say, okay, so if you're having trouble figuring out, I totally understand I recommend you see a therapist and talk to them about it and see what they think Like whoa Okay, so I made a recommendation to you. I think that would be helpful. You're telling me you don't know what to do I think this will be helpful and you're choosing not to do it. What is the therapist is gonna tell me? You just tell me what is the therapist gonna tell me? I'm not sure it's my recommendation Do you want to do what I am recommending? Yes or no, you don't have to you just tell me I don't see how it's gonna help. Why won't you just tell me what did I do wrong? Yeah, so I've said what I'm gonna say I don't think continuing this conversation is useful at all I'm happy to listen Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, okay So I've shared with you what I think we need to move this relationship forward You're welcome to do it if you want to you're welcome to not do it if you don't want to I don't see the point Tell me the point you're like go to therapy and you'll see You're like no tell me what why should I do it and they're just constantly trying to engage with you Constantly trying to pull you in pull you in pull you in pull you in Are you telling me I'm broken? Are you telling me that I'm a bad parent? Are you telling me that I ruined your life? There it is looking for the reassurance and you can say did you hear me say any of those things? Okay, I'm gonna just step out I'm literally gonna step out of the conversation right now because I'm literally gonna step out of the conversation right now because I see that you're talking but I don't I think i've already made my point You just keep talking and you seem to be like trying to corner me with like asking me for particular stuff So i'm literally going to walk away from this conversation you turn around you walk out because they will continue asking you questions They will continue talking to you until they wear you down You get become cognitively disinhibited. You can't control your emotions anymore And then if you lash out at them, they're gonna feel vindicated Because they feel unloved they feel hated and if you lash out at them, they're like, oh see he hates me Oh my god, I was right all along and then the cycle reinforces So literally extract yourself from the conversation only solution you can do Okay What if you do hate them you could tell them it may not help What I would say is that there's a part of me that hates you i'd leave some wiggle room in there She's in my room though. So walk out of your room I can't give advice though. They'll be like you came out of my and now giving me advice. No, i'm not giving you advice I'm letting you know What I think what I need in this relationship you can do it or not do it and they're like screw you I ain't gonna do it. You're like, okay fine No big deal I've asked you to do something. You don't have to do it Right, I came out of your V five asterisks anyway. Yeah, so for a lot of people who talk about like I get slapped and stuff like yeah So there's there's a whole like this is why like so i'm kind of going off script here This is why like this is actually a whole long thing which includes Power dynamics, okay So that's the really tricky thing here is that if your parents if there's a power dynamic between you and your parents You have to respect that power dynamic. You can't get over it Yeah needs skill 100 for this. Yes, you absolutely do. So let me explain something to y'all chat If dr. K is sitting here on stream and telling you just do this just say this man It's it's how it works. I want you all to understand. I have literally had like eight to ten years of training and experience Like residency is like 80 to 100 hours a week for four years Okay, so what I am capable of doing is not because I'm amazing But also is like requires a lot of like experience, right? I am a professional I'm a professional talker And so you y'all need to cut yourself some slack give yourself some patience Be patient with yourself and work on these things like a little bit at a time And I've seen people get there. It's going to take you a year or two. Not kidding. Like don't expect Like don't expect everything to turn around six months from now Setting limits with your parents is a lifelong journey Okay, it is exhausting But You know you can do it. It just takes effort energy awareness and patience Like y'all will get there like I have faith in you Like I don't think you have to become a psychiatrist because we learn all kinds of other crap, right? It's not just setting Uh boundaries with entitled parents or narcissistic parents. There's more there's things like ect and tms and pharmacology There's a lot of stuff packed in there, but like it's going to take some time Why is life so exhausting because we don't understand the rules and no one teaches us That is why life is exhausting