 Yeah, it expanded to quite a lot of people. Yeah, I know. So the first thing, what should I call you, buddy? Call me Kevin. OK. So the first thing, Kevin, is I owe you an apology. Because I know we were scheduled to talk on Friday, and then I kind of bumped because I had a bunch of family in town. And then we were scheduled to talk at the top of the hour, but Rekful wanted to come on. And it actually sounded to me like what he was talking about was maybe a little bit relevant to what we were talking about. Yeah, I was close to crying at one point. I really, really, really, really, yeah. And so I'm sorry for bumping you a couple of times. It's fine. It's really not. I understand. But it's OK to say it's not, too. So tell me a little bit. But as you know from stream, we kind of had you on last week kind of impromptu. So I try to do things a little bit impromptu from time to time. And sometimes people get the short end of the stick for that. So I'm sorry about that. That's totally fine. I mean that. So tell me a little bit about why don't you fill in people? Because we have 3,500 people. Yeah, we have a lot of people. You want to just tell people a little bit about what we talked about last week and what felt relevant to you? We talked a lot about pain versus suffering, the act of feeling pain and the act of experiencing suffering. And a lot about actually how the nihilism, the way that Rick fulfilled it versus how I felt it. It was very comparable, I feel. What was comparable about it? It felt like he had a childhood trauma that really shaped his reality for him. And that's completely the same. And to catch people up, I almost lost my father when I was 12. And that really shaped how I felt about the world. And we got around to me feeling that that experience was me feeling that nothing was worth anything. Because when something can end in such a moment, that shapes your life. And with the samskara with the kid getting bit and stuff like that. Yeah, so Kevin, can we actually back up a little bit? Because that's not actually where we started, right? Where did we start? What did you first say to me? You had a question. Yeah, my question was, how do you distinguish between the feeling of not wanting to die but not wanting to live? Yeah. I personally feel that I don't want to die, but I really don't want to live. Yeah, beautiful. And that was the question. And what was it that brought that on? Do you remember what we talked about first? You're jumping to the punch line, buddy. Yeah, I'm sorry. That was my girlfriend, Lee. And that shook up how my expectations were of the future. And I feel like it has only gotten worse. What's gotten worse? But that was really the trigger. I found out today that she might be already seeing someone else. And I feel like reflecting on that, I feel like the thought I had about maybe trying to get it to work or in any shape or form trying to get it to work might have been shattered now. And I built all my expectations of reality and all my joy in a life with her. Yeah. OK, so we're going to take a step back, OK? So the first thing to understand is that, so my recollection, Kevin, from what we talked about last time, is that you had said that you're not quite sure. It's not that you're suicidal and you want to kill yourself, but you just don't see anything worth living in life. It's that life sort of lacks purpose or zest. And that for, go ahead. And we actually talked about, I actually had been feeling like that before I met her five years ago. So that's a long time of feeling that she was the only thing worth living for. Absolutely. And I had that feeling before that. And the feeling goes way back into my teenage years. So I think a lot like Rekful. So from what I remember from our conversation, you had felt like life was purposeless. And then you met her. And once you met her, then suddenly you can start to build a life. You can start to move forward. Because you can live with her. You guys are going to get married. You're going to have kids. Blah, blah, blah, yada, yada, yada. Maybe, maybe not. But that you can sort of start to construct a life that has purpose and meaning. But the truth is that that's actually not a real purpose. That's just a distraction. Right? And so you start to build this life. You kind of put all your eggs in one basket. And that's. Yeah, I did. Absolutely. And then what happens is once you break up, then you feel like your life is purposeless. But the truth is that the purposelessness began way before her. So what do you want to talk about today? Do you want to talk about the origin of the purposelessness? Do you want to talk about the prospect of her like dealing with sort of the feelings that she may be dating someone again and what that brings up for you? Because even if you know that she's not really the root of the problem, it can be really hard to shake all of the negative emotions. Yeah, I feel like especially today, I would have talked about my past and with my dad and stuff like that. But the feeling I got today was quite intense. Let's talk about today, buddy. Yeah. Have to start with today. Yeah, I found out that she was saying, like, we haven't divided anything. We've been living together for three years. So it's quite a lot. And I found out that she was buddies with this one guy while we were dating. And now that we're not, she's gotten to loan some transportation card or whatever. And I found out essentially by checking that, not stalking, I was just checking to make sure it is system in Denmark, but that she was going to his address. It just showed up. I thought it was my card. I have two, so she could have one when we were together. And I found out essentially that she's been going to this guy. And after we talked, I kind of tried to make my mind aware that we might not ever again be together. And I think that the little amount of hope I had. You tried to make your mind aware of that, or the mind started thinking that automatically? I tried to make my mind think of that, but I'm still sleeping 20 hours a day, and I'm still not eating. And essentially that shattered. Before, 100% of my life was trying to get this to work. And I tried to put my mind into the, I'm going to try, 20% of it has to, I thought made sense of trying to get this to work, and maybe she needs time and stuff like this. But I feel like the chance has diminished so much that, yeah, I think it gives me a sense of new, meaningless. Yeah. So what is your, okay, so let's just think about this for a second. So on the one hand, it sounds like you recognize that your lack of purpose has nothing to do with your relationship. Yeah, I feel, yeah. At the same time, you've built up this sense of purpose, which your mind has gotten used to, right? It's become a part of you. That you were deriving a sense of purpose. It was sort of like, you're thirsty and you're moving through a desert, and there's no water anywhere, and you find an oasis, which is her, and she's giving you water, and this relationship is keeping you alive. And then the relationship ends, and then suddenly you're back in the desert again. And not only that, but you're thinking, maybe I can find that oasis again. Maybe if I put effort into it, we can be together again. And then you find this thing on the transportation card, which sort of tells you, oh, actually the oasis is probably never gonna be there. Yeah, the chance is slim, and I really feel that the thought that I might not ever find this oasis with water again, is like, I want to be with her logically, and I think she's a kind, sweet person. I love her a lot, obviously. But I think the only thing that has given me any form of drive lately has been, she would come over last week and divide some stuff. And that was the first time I showered. It was the first time I ate. It was the first time I actually cleaned. How do you feel about that? It makes me really sad. What's sad about that? Because, I think it's the thought of maybe never again. I think it's the thought of experiencing that, the way she made me feel. Like, and the prospect of a family, and the prospect of a family with her. I think the connection we made, we were both when we were sitting and talking, when we met last, we weren't mad at each other. We weren't. Got to saying that maybe we should have been friends before we became, before we got together. And I think the prospect of going forward without that really, really hits me. Hits you in what way? Yeah, I think it goes back to feeling fulfilled. Being happy. Okay. So I think you've grown attached to this relationship, which is normal. And we talked last time about how pain is, you can't avoid pain or negative emotion in life, but attachment is what leads to suffering. So it's expectation that leads to true suffering. Yeah. It's like when I'm opening a present and I think it's gonna be a new iPhone and it turns out to be an Android, well, I would actually be happy, but other people. But a Peps are. It's like when a movie that you've heard everything about, you've heard everyone says it's awesome, it's awesome, it's awesome, and it disappoints. That's because expectation is actually the real devil. But in your case, I think there's way more going on than sadness. So she made you feel a certain way, fine. Is there grief that should happen over the relationship? Absolutely. But I think that there's more than sadness. Are you detecting any other emotions? Hopelessness. Okay. Tell me about that. We talked last time about how everything I did in my life was really revolved around building this expectation, like building the, like I'm looking forward to getting my degree so that we can have more money and we can go on adventures together. And when I was at school, the only reason why I would want to get through the day was to get home to her and that feeling. Yeah. Sounds like you had really become dependent on her to motivate you. Yeah. And most of the time I would skip school just to relax with her. And I think that, and I have a lot of guilt over, sorry, someone messaged me. I have a lot of guilt about me not trying hard enough. That's really, I'm very susceptible to the feeling of failure and the feeling of missing out. That hits me really hard. So let's, absolutely, man. So we're gonna get to that because I think that's actually the real problem. So we're gonna talk about this in a second, okay? So tell me, why do you think you're so susceptible to the feeling of failure? That's a hard one. Yep. I'm sorry, my voice is quivering. I'm trying really hard to speak clean and loudly. You can quiver. Being Danish and all. It's okay. The first time I wanted to kill myself was five and a half years ago. And that was because that was... I was fulfilling the... I was trying to do an education that I knew my father would be proud of. Which I really didn't want to do. The thing I've been chasing this acceptance a lot from my father all this time. Yeah. Sounds like someone's been doing some thinking over the last week. I've known these things for years. I'm aware of them. But I have a really hard time opening up about it because I know that I would cry and I would feel like this. How do you... And this feels like shit. Okay. So you feel bad right now? Yeah. You feel bad right now? Yeah. You feel bad right now? Yeah. You feel bad right now? Yeah. You feel bad right now? I hate... What feels bad? Tell me. Every time I cry, it feels like physical pain. Absolutely. In my head and in my chest and... Yeah. Sorry. That's okay. So we're gonna help you with that physical pain for a moment. And then we're gonna talk about the psychology of it, okay? So the first thing that we're gonna do is we're gonna try to calm you down a little bit. So sit up straight, close your eyes. We're gonna do another kind of meditation. So I'm gonna teach you something called triphasic breathing, okay? So sit up straight. I want you to close your eyes and I want you to try to keep your chest still, but as you inhale, move your abdomen. So move your belly, push your belly out as you breathe in. And as you breathe out, pull your belly in. Breathe in, push the belly out. As you breathe out, pull the belly in. So with each breath, I want you to move your belly button out and then in, out and then in. So just do that for a moment. Eventually pack in completely. And now what I want you to do is when you breathe in, so breathe in with your belly first and then expand your chest. There you go, expand it out wide and then breathe out. And bring your belly in again. Get that last bit of air out. Beautiful. And now one more breath and then the last phase is raise your shoulders. Pull your shoulders up. Up. Up. Good, like that. And then out. So first the belly, then the chest, and then the last little bit is with the shoulders. And then out. And one more breath. Now just sit. Eyes closed. Feel your head. Feel your chest. What do you feel? Much more calm. Okay. So Kevin, point number one. You gotta stop running away from the feelings. They're piling up. They're overwhelming you. Yeah. The reason that you feel purposeless, like you can't feel meaning in life because anytime... So the place that meaning comes from, is the same place that negative emotions come from. Because remember this whole point about dharma is that dharma gives you purpose despite negative emotions. The problem is that you can't find dharma because you're running away from the negative emotions. Dharma is the most pure dharma that you can find is when negative emotions exist. That's when you find the real meaning of life. Not when you're like partying on a yacht. It's like when you're in a concentration camp or you're like Martin Luther King giving a speech about civil rights. Or you're like trying to like save the world like when you're trying to save another human being. When you're in the operating room and you're performing surgery and you're tired and you're sweaty and you're afraid that they're gonna die. Like that's when you find your meaning. The biggest problem that so many people have is that you're afraid of death. You're afraid of the way that they make you feel. That you can't go to the place where you're gonna find the purpose. The first thing that we've got to help you do is to face those negative emotions. Sit with them, breathe through them and accept them. Because your problem isn't sadness. Your problem isn't an empty life. Your problem is fear. Your problem is that you've been living a life where you're afraid of death. Your problem is that you've been living a life. Like you don't have purpose in your life because you haven't been living for yourself for decades. You stopped living for yourself a long time ago. So no wonder you can't find purpose. Because you like you've forgotten you never learned how to live for yourself. You started by living for your dad and then you started by living for your girlfriend. So you move from person to person to person that can give you meaning. You pick a career that would make your dad happy instead of one that would make you happy. So it's like you've leveled up like living for others and like your ability to live for yourself has become completely buried. And why is it completely buried? Because anytime you think about your life, like sure your girlfriend made you happy. But the real problem here is that somewhere along the way you never learned or you forgot that you can be happy with other people. That you can be happy on your own. That you actually don't need another human being to make you happy. But you never learned that. So we've got to this. This is a problem of uncertainty about the future. The reason you're so attached to this oasis is because you don't have faith that if you trek out into the desert, you won't find water. That's the problem. It's about fear. Sure, you feel sad. Like I think anyone who has a breakup is going to feel sad. I don't think that those feelings are bad. No, and I feel like I can separate those feelings. And I really know how you mean. Because I think for the last almost two weeks now, I've been... I can't have quiet, quietness. I always have to have something... If it's in my headphones or when I'm lying in bed like 90% of the time, I have to get my iPad and have something going like a stream or YouTube video. And I fall asleep. Absolutely. So this is the thing. Right now, your head is a terrifying place. You cannot face what is going on in your head. It's overwhelming. I've described it. I tried to use art at one point to describe it to my then girlfriend. And when I just described it to her, it was like all the negative things I have is like a Pandora's box. Sitting in a basement. And I'm even too afraid to even enter the basement. Absolutely. I sort of know how you feel because I was in the same place. So when I was failing out of college, I'm the child of two doctors. And everyone in our social circle is very accomplished and all that kind of good stuff. And so I knew I was failing at life and I felt so ashamed. And I knew I was fucking up and I could do nothing to stop it. And every day that went by, I fucked it up more. And I fucked it up more. And I fucked it up more. I was just like on this downward spiral and I couldn't stop it. And so the only thing that gave me relief is that I would play video games until I was so exhausted that I would just pass out. No time for my mind to think. The scariest time was when I was laying in bed and I could not distract myself because all of that shame and that negativity would come boiling up. But here's the thing, Kevin. You think it's scary down there and it absolutely is scary. But that's not going to destroy you. It can't destroy you. I don't believe it can destroy you. You're afraid of it because you don't know what's down there, right? So fear, understand this, Kevin. Fear lives off of a lack of information. The less we know, the more afraid we are. Right? Like if I'm a six-year-old kid and I'm afraid there's a monster in the closet, do you know, is that door open or closed when I'm afraid there's a monster in there? It's always closed. Absolutely. Absolutely, right? And why is that? Because it's fucking scary. Yeah. And what happens if the door opens? You're afraid of what's going to come out. Yeah, but what happens after the door opens? I don't know. So like, let's say that I have a six-year-old kid and the kid is afraid that there's a monster in the closet and then I'm the parent and I walk in and I open the door. What does the kid do? And then? Do they stay scared once the door is open? They can't. They learned that. Yeah, they learned that there's nothing there. So is it absolutely traumatic when I reach my door, when I reach to open the door handle? Absolutely. The kid is going to freak the fuck out. They're like, no, no, no, don't open it. Don't open it. Don't open it. Don't open it. And they're terrified. And then I open the door and there's nothing back there. Now, in your case, there's something in the basement, but you've got to understand this. Fear thrives off of a lack of information. It can only exist in hypotheticals. Fear is not about reality. It is about the hypothetical. Yeah, that's the only thing I've been thinking about all day. It's the hypotheticals. Yes. Trying to use Arkham Tracer to like, what if she just went there to get some other stuff? So forget you need to stop living in hypotheticals. Yeah. And really start living with where you are. And the beautiful thing is that like, so I want you to understand this. When you push the emotions away, that's a hypothetical too. That's not a reality. You're keeping the emotions in the hypothetical zone because you're not living them. As you start to live, like how bad was it to cry, Kevin? Just now. Both good and bad. I'm actually crying right now when you were telling that. And that was a much easier experience. Yeah. So like, newsflash, you step down into the basement and you survived. So this is the big lesson that you somehow have not learned. Is that you are fucking indestructible. Like you just don't know that. And like here you're doing it. You're crying in front of 2,458 people right now. I was afraid it was still 5,000. Yeah, thankfully we've lost some people. I don't have this dream up on purpose. It's hard enough to cry by yourself when you're crying in front of like 2,500 people. And like, hey, guess what? You're still here. Yeah, and I think the really hard part about thinking about this breakup was that I am going to live. And I think maybe even more that I might reach a day where she isn't a part of this. Or I'm with someone else and I invested these five years into something that might be like gone forever. The thing about something being permanently gone because of something I may have done is world-wrecking to me. So this is because you're arrogant. You're so arrogant. You believe you have the power to control that relationship. Where do you get the nerve believing that if you did things differently, that relationship would still be alive? That is the depth of arrogance. You need to understand that in this world, you only are entitled to what you do. You are not entitled to what happens. There is incredible freedom in this. That you don't get to control what happens in that relationship. That's your problem. Your problem is arrogance. That if you had done this, if you had done this, if you had done this, or even today, if you do this tomorrow, if you do this tomorrow, that you can repair that relationship. The relationship is not yours to control. It's just not. The faster you accept that, the faster you can try. You can try to be civil. You can try to tell her, hey, I want to get back together. But that's all you're entitled to. You're not actually entitled to the relationship. The other thing is that I do think that you'll have invested five years into this relationship and it could end. That may seem like a waste. But I can tell you that I don't think it's a waste. Because I think that the lessons we learn in life are invaluable. I started medical school at the age of 27. Which is like one year after most of my friends from college graduated. When they were graduating, I hadn't even been accepted yet. And it was incredibly shaming. And so I think, oh, I wasted five years of my life. No. Did I waste five years of my life? Yes. And it's made me the person that I am today. And I needed to waste those five years of my life. Because now I can get on Twitch and I can talk to people like you. Because you feel like you've wasted five years. And is it a waste? Yeah. But it's also making you the person that you are. And you have to live like where you are. You can't live in a hypothetical world. You have to play the character that you rolled. Once you make a character, that's the character. And if you screw up and you wipe, you have to respawn. And then you've got to play from where you respawned. It doesn't matter. You can get upset about wiping as much as you want. But you've got to play. If you respawn, you respawn. And then you zone back in. And then you try to take down whatever raid boss. You try again. The problem is that you're in the process of respawning. And you just think you get one shot. But you don't. You get many shots. That's what's cool about life. You actually get to keep trying. Until you die. Yeah. And I think I've been overthinking this. Because every time I think about this, I think about what am I going to do? What am I going to do? What am I going to do? What am I going to do? I think about what am I going to tell her? How am I going to tell her? What words would I use to make the outcome favor me? Yeah. Maybe getting her to try again. What makes the highest percentage of success? So I want you to notice, Kevin, that that thing is like a little parasite in your mind. That there's a part of your mind that's... Because I know it pulls me from acting. Absolutely. I know it pulls me from acting. I know it pulls me from acting. I know it pulls me from acting. I know it pulls me from acting. Absolutely. And it pulls me from acting how my true self really wants to act. And it pulls me from acting how my true self really wants to act. There you go. So Kevin, you're doing it because you just fucking figured out that you have a true self. That's beautiful. Right? Now that you see that that thing is trying to hold on to this false sense, like the second you begin to realize that you have a true self, and you're already realizing it. So this is the cool thing about Gnan. So Gnan is the sense of when you're trying to act. So Gnan is one of the Sanskrit words for knowledge, which means understanding. You can't shake understanding. Once you understand something, you can't un-understand it. Once you understand that 2 plus 2 equals 4, then you always understand that 2 plus 2 equals 4. You can forget, but you can't stop understanding. Once you know what a strawberry tastes like, once you know what cheese tastes like, once you know what it's like to take a hot shower, once you know what it's like to take a cold shower. Experience cannot be taken away from you. Experience cannot be taken away from you. And your salvation lies in the fact that you've started to discover that there is a true self under there. I don't know how you found it. But you know that something is not your true self. And that gives me hope. Because you used to think that the part of you that craved a relationship with her, that needed a relationship with her, was your true self. But what if I feel like that still, that maybe becomes what I want? What becomes what I want? I have a hard time pulling those two feelings away from each other. Because I think it's so melded together. I know that I have a true self and a way that I would act without thinking. But if I would tell you how I feel without thinking, I would still feel that I would want this to work the best way possible. So I want you to understand that that's actually not... That's a part of you. So your desire to have her be a part of your life again is very real. And that you've grown attached to that. That's what happens. You've grown attached. And so detachment can be a painful process. And it's fine to want to be with her again. Just recognize those thoughts. Recognize that there's a part of you that no matter what you do or what you think or how much you grow, there's a part of you that's always going to want to try to control her and manipulate her into getting back with you. Yeah, and that's the really hard part. Because how do I try to get her back without essentially, as you're saying, manipulating her? Because I don't want her to be sad. I don't want her to actually be in a relationship that doesn't fulfill her. Either way, I love her very much. I mean that in a very deep way. So I don't want to influence her in any way that would make her life less. Yeah, so that's conflict, right? Because there's a part of you that's saying, if she can be happy with someone else, I want that for her because I love her. And there's a part of you that's saying, oh hell no. I want her to be with me. So the first thing to understand is that there are these two warning parts of you. One of them is attachment, and one of them is love. Those are two different things and they oftentimes get confused. Attachment and love. But what... And those conflict when I... And this is a very... I hope I don't get too much hate for saying that, but I truly think that she could be happy with me. Of course. So let's be clear. The part of you that is attached is not wrong. It's not incorrect. It's just attached. Of course she could be happy with you. That's not incorrect. So the way that we defeat that part... Actually we don't defeat it. But the way that... We don't defeat it by proving it wrong, which you can try to do. So sometimes when you have a war within your mind, like you try to fight against yourself. And that's exhausting. So this is what you need to do. I want you to pretend... So let me ask you this. You lost your dad? I didn't lose him. I was close to losing him. And I've been close to losing him two more times after that. So the part of you that is afraid of losing her. Does that feel... But I can... I can give you an example. My grandfather was essentially my second dad because my father was a little bit absent. And I lost him some years ago. So we can use that. So when you think about losing your So when you think about losing her, does it feel like the same... Do you feel like you're 12 years old again and your dad is sick? Yeah. It actually feels very much the same. It feels like my whole life is over. So that's the sum score. I feel a very strong feeling of panic. We were scheduled to actually see each other today. When she called me and said she was sick. I've known her for five years. She wasn't sick. That made me panic very much because now I lost my chance to talk to her. So this is important. So I'm going to just type this out in chat. So the sum score gets activated when you are about to lose someone. When there's a prospect of losing someone. So I want you to understand this very carefully. If you actually lose her at some point then you're going to feel fine. Like you'll feel sad. But the sum score won't be active. So the thing is you guys have broken up but you don't feel like you've lost her. You actually feel like... So do you see... So as long as that's the feeling with your dad because you don't actually lose your dad. So the fear is about the possibility of loss. And your mind is actually in the place where there's a possibility of loss. You feel like there's still hope in the relationship. That's the sum score. The weird thing is like it's sort of like if you get bit by a dog and you walk down the street and you see a cat you don't feel scared. So once you know that the relationship is finally over the sum score is actually going to deactivate in a bizarre way and you'll feel better. Because then it's not the same situation. It's not... It's the possibility of loss that you're the most scared of. So what do you do about this? The first thing is you got to stop fighting. That doesn't mean give in. I want you to pretend... So how old are you now Kevin? 26. So I want you to pretend that there's a 12 year old you and there's a 26 year old you. And the 12 year old you is terrified of losing your dad. So imagine you're your own older brother. What would you do with the 12 year old? I have no idea. Yes. That's the problem. Right? Because you don't know how to comfort that person. You don't know how to help that person. That person doesn't need to be proven they're wrong. That person needs like compassion and help. You need reassurance. You need someone to say, hey buddy, like sure this person may pass away or this relationship is over. You need to be more careful. You need to be more careful. This person may pass away or this relationship may end. But I have faith in you and I'm going to be with you and we're going to figure this out together. That's what you need to learn how to tell yourself. Right? That loss can happen and it's scary. And it's not what you want and I'm not saying it's fair. I'm not saying it's pleasant. It's going to be shitty. But it doesn't have to destroy you. Do you believe it's going to destroy you? Logically, no. But it feels like it. It feels like I only have like one month to live. So understand that you're allowed to feel that way. You're absolutely allowed to feel that way. Right? And you don't have to argue against it. Because you're not going to be like, hey, I'm going to be like, I'm going to be like, I'm going to be like, I'm going to argue against it. Because that's how you feel. And as best as you can, just pause and try to find that centre, so I think you should meditate. Do you have a way that you can learn meditation? Like through Youtube? I want you to go somewhere. You have a yoga class that you can go to? Uh, no, no, no, I'm a poor student. I don't, I can't really buy anything. I have a gym membership. Does your gym have a yoga? They might have a yoga. Yeah, so look into that. They might have. So the other thing that I want to explain to you and everyone who's watching is that, so men especially feel emotions in their body. Like they don't understand mentally what emotion they're feeling, but they certainly feel it in their body. And the example that I like to give is like, you know, when someone gets, like when I get dumped by my girlfriend, I don't know what I'm feeling. Like I don't know how to say, like, I'm afraid that I'm never going to find love again. Like that's not what you tell your friends. You say like, oh yeah, man, she hit me. Like she kicked me in the nuts. Like that's what you say. And like everyone understands what you mean. You guys all understand what that means. You don't understand like what that is emotionally, but you understand it physically. Like that's how it feels. So what you need to do is work on your body. So if you have the option to see a therapist or something like that, I definitely think you should do that. Especially if you've been. I have a yeah, already have a time actually. I have time at the doctor's tomorrow. So that's the other thing you need to do is understand that emotional processing for you. If you want to if you want to clean out the basement without ever going down there, you must use your body. Yoga or Tai Chi is best. Exercise is good. But apparently yoga and Tai Chi is better. So it's science says. So as you start to move your body, you're going to feel that tightness. And then like just like we did today is you breathe into the tightness. It starts to feel better. And that's not suppression. That's not forgetting. That's not distraction. That's you actually sitting with and feeling and processing your emotions. You're doing it physically, which is really cool that you can do that because the body and the mind are connected. And if you feel mentally bummed out up here, your energy level is going to drop. And if you use caffeine, you're going to feel activated up here. Body and mind are connected and you need to use them both. So I think therapy is good. I think yoga is good. Do surya namaskar. The sun salutation. I'm going to type it in chat. OK, as you are, why I'll I'll I'll DM you to. Chi Gong is good to Chi Gong is like Brown. I am so Brown. I am in Chi Gong as well as awesome and Tai Chi. It's a sequence of yoga poses. If you do three surya namaskars in the morning and three surya namaskars before you go to bed, I think you're going to feel way better. I said if you feel like if you do three in the morning, three rounds of surya namaskar in the morning and three rounds of surya namaskar at night, you're going to feel better. Can you? Yeah, I'll I'll I'll message. I'll do that. OK, all right. Because I don't. OK, sure. Cool. So questions, Kevin. Like one thing I have is. Is more practical now because I know we reach. Very much the call of the problem, but when I'm. These past week and a half, I've been sleeping 20, 20 hours out of 24 and haven't been outside much. And yeah, even eating, I've lost 15 pounds in this time. And the only question I really have is how practical, like practically to do stuff like how can I get because I also feel like if I like one reasoning I have between this and thinking clearly how I want. If I were to get her back was that I have to be in another place. I have to be good. Like, yeah, I have to get better and. And also for myself, like it's not just for that relationship, but I have to get better. So I don't know how to get out of. So I think that sometimes human beings forget that we're communal animals and we try to do everything ourselves. So in Sanskrit, there's a word called Sangha. Sangha means community and Sangha is critical for success in meditative or spiritual practice. So I think the problem like the simplest way is that you have to figure out. Do you have any kind of community that you can engage with? I actually don't only have my family. I moved to this town because of her. I have a few few friends. So a couple of things. The first is, you know, so part of what we do like part like so I stream, but then we also do a lot of other stuff with Healthy Gamer. So one of those things is we're training a group of recovery coaches and you guys can sign up at healthygamer.gg. So I think that like you should maybe think about joining some of our groups and stuff and then like start talking to people where you're like, oh, I'm going to be a part of this. And then like start talking to people working with people who are sharing like similar problems that you guys that you have and you guys help each other. The other thing is you've got to find community because you're not it's like really hard neuroscientifically and behaviorally to just like turn your life around. So I think it's good that you're going to the doctor like you're a student. Right. So there are people in the class. I'm just about to graduate and I actually have. Are you? I don't have any anyone around me. Okay. So like, are you going to get a job? I hope so. What's that process looking like? It looks very hard right now. Or it looks. I can't find the word in English. It looks. Exhausting to actually do that process and yeah, and I'm not looking forward. Yeah, so I'm glad that you're seeing a doctor tomorrow because you actually sound like you're clinically depressed. How long have you been feeling this way? Did you say clinically depressed? It cut out. Yeah. Yeah, this way. Yeah, all my life, I would say. But that how long have you been sleeping 20 hours a day? If my girlfriend permitted it, I would have slept 20 hours a day. Most of our relationship. Yeah, so I think definitely get an evaluation. And I mean, I don't know. I mean, I think you've got to find something to do. Right. So I don't know like what you're interested in. And it sounds like you're you're graduating. And so I don't know if you guys have job fairs or things like that. But like I think you've got to find a community because a community is what's going to help you out when you're in your darkest time. Like when I went to the ashram, sure, I did a lot of yoga and meditation. But there were other people there that were also doing yoga and meditation or try to figure out who they were and what's going on in their life. Yeah. So if you go to the gym and like they do a yoga class, like you should go every week because you're going to meet people. And then one day one of them is going to be like, hey, do you want to go grab a coffee or something? Fine. And I absolutely. It's actually. Go ahead. It's funny. The day after we talked, I had this and it's funny about now that we listen to Rick full and I listen to you about saying that you want to help as many people as possible. I had the very intense feeling of I wanted to do these school. What's it called when you come up and speak to people in like. Like a motivational speaker. I'm losing. Not motivational speaker, but but a a person who visits a school to talk about the people who have had these problems and maybe trying to help. Yeah, I had a very intense feeling of that the day after we talked. So I think that's that's how dharma is born. Right. When you start recognizing that, like the reason you can sleep 20 hours a day because the is because the only person you're screwing over is yourself. And yeah, and I don't have so much. That's the problem. You don't value yourself. Yeah. And so I think therapy will help with that. And I think you know, having someone else in your life like that that you're beholden to is really important. Like it's nine twenty. I've been in my office on a Sunday since three o'clock. And why is that? This is not how I want to spend my Sunday. I mean, it is. But it's you know, this is my day off. I know what you mean. Like, right. So I get like two days off and I work a lot. And this is what keeps us going. This is what allows us to tolerate suffering. And so I think you should absolutely find your dharma. But it starts with little things. So I'd say like go to the gym and see what kind of classes like it doesn't even matter if they don't have yoga classes, go to a class and interact with other human beings and expand your orbit. Because as human beings, we're wired to like do things and care about things that other people care about. Like that's what peer pressure is when everyone at school, when you're 15 and everyone has like a certain backpack or certain kind of jeans. That's what you want. So your problem is that your peer pressure, you know, you know what peer pressure means? So like where are you getting peer pressure from? No, no, no. Incorrect. Yeah, from the people around me. But right now I'm getting. So who are you around right now? Right now I'm probably around 2000 people. No, no, no. In your life, who are your peers? It's kind of a trick question. Yeah. You're around yourself. You're your peer. You're in your head. You have multiple versions of you. You talk to yourself all the time. You talk to yourself. You talk to yourself. You talk to yourself. You talk to yourself. You talk to yourself. You talk to yourself all the time. So all of the things that you so much. Yeah. So like the hot new jeans at your school is your girlfriend. That's the only thing that matters because that's the all the people in your head, all of the different versions of you, the part of you that's sad, the part of you that's fearful, the part of you that wants to control the part of you that's hungry for a better life. All of those people, they all want one thing and that's her. So you've got to spend time around other people. You guys have to understand that your head is not like monolithic. Your mind is not one thing. Your mind is like a whole host of different voices and desires and feelings and logic and rationality and emotions and that they all fight against each other for supremacy, habits, wanting to play video games, wanting to eat certain kinds of food, wanting to eat other kinds of food, wanting to change, wanting to say it, stay the same. Your mind is a whole orchestra of different people. The problem is that all of your peer pressure just makes you value her. So you've got to find other peers because when you're with a bunch of yoga people, they're going to all care about self-development and growth and being spiritual and not polluting the earth and all that kind of crap. Your brain is just wired to care about that stuff if you hang around with other people who care about that stuff. So you've got to just spend time with other people. I don't care how you do it. You're a smart guy. I'm sure you can find something. Gym is a great place to start. So go to a class. It can be CrossFit. It can be like Zumba. It can be yoga. It can be gym. Like whatever. And then as you start applying for jobs, like see if there are career events, like if there are job fairs or things like that, make a resume and start going to places like ask your counselors or whatever your resources are and like find yourself a fucking job because being depressed is bad. Being lonely is bad. Being dumped is bad. Being all of those things and a bunch of other things is bad. Being all of those things and broke is worse. Okay. And the last thing is that, Kevin, I don't think you're a piece of shit, man. I don't think that you're a waste of space. And I don't think that your life is hopeless. And I think that the biggest problem, the reason that you feel that way is because you actually don't understand who you are. Is because the version of you that exists is the one that you discovered when you lived your life based on other people. So the only you that you know is actually not the real you. Yeah. Questions? Thoughts? Maybe that's why I have to have something running all the time because then I have less a chance of hearing my own thoughts. Yeah. Because you think your thoughts are scary, but they're not that, I mean they're going to be bad. Don't get me wrong. And sometimes if you do feel suicidal or something like that, you should go talk to someone. Yeah, I've talked to a hotline and I know where I can go if I'm there. So yeah. Questions for me, buddy? Yeah. I'm feeling overwhelmed. I don't think there's anything really depressing. Yeah. So you're going to feel overwhelmed because the amount of transformation. So let me tell you why you feel overwhelmed. You're at the base of Mount Everest and you're looking up to the top and you're saying, wow, that is a really far way to climb. And you know what? You're right. And you should feel overwhelmed. But whether you're climbing a mountain that's 30,000 feet high, 20,000 feet high or 300 feet high, how do you climb that mountain? All you can do. Right? Yeah. You can't meditate for 10 years. You can't be sober for 10 years. You can't be in a 10 year relationship. You can only meditate today. You can only work out today. You can only eat today. You can only apply to one job today. You can only ask a girl out today. That's all you can do. The rest is up to, I don't know, God, luck, entropy, karma, whatever you want it to be. As a human being, you only control what you do. You don't control what happens. And the more that you recognize that, the more free you will be and the more chill you will be and the more your life will start to turn around. Yeah. So good night, my friends and Twitch chat and good luck. You're most welcome. And thanks for being patient. Of course. It's so you're making such an immense difference. And just listening to this would be very cool. I was lucky enough to get on after him, but just being witness to it was actually also very good. I think that you teach and the outreach is fine. Well, that's what we're here for, buddy. So you're most welcome. Good luck and stay in touch. Come back on stream. Let us know. Be a success story. Actually, this is really important, Kevin. So there are going to be a couple thousand people watching this stream. And they need to see you and they need to see you not fuck up because right now you have the option to fuck up your life over the next couple of months or start to build something. And like if you fuck it up, then that's not going to be anything to them. But I there are people in Twitch chat. I mean, you can go back and watch the Vaughn. A lot of people relate to some of the things that you're feeling, which is what stream is about. You related to Wreckful. We all relate to each other. We're all kind of like in the same boat, right? Myself included. Yeah. And so I inspire people because I got my shit together and you can too. And that's your Dharma. So people need to see you because they're going to say like, oh, this guy is like, I'm like, that guy's so fucking pathetic. Like if he can do it, I should be able to do it. Or you can be inspirational and they can say, like, if he can do it, I can do it. That guy's legit. So you really have a Dharma to them. You guys all have a responsibility to each other. Right. And as Twitch had a saying, go, Kevin, go. They're rooting for you. So don't let him down. Don't let us down. It's a bad idea to live for your dad. It's a bad idea to live for your girlfriend, but it's a good idea to live for Twitch chat. Twitch chat. If you can't trust yourself, that's what we learned today. Yeah. Go, Kevin, go. I'm actually looking right now. You got this, Kevin. You got this. Right. All right. Take care. So much. And thank you. Thank you to everyone. Yeah. I'll write when there's development. Okay. Write if there isn't development. There's value in that, too. All right. So don't write based on what happens. Development is happening. Write based on your actions. Don't tell me what's happened. That's the wrong way to think, Kevin. Write based on what you've done. All right. The actions you've taken. I still don't have a job, but I applied to 50. That's what I want to hear. Not I got a job. I don't fucking care. I mean, I do care if you get a job, but that's not the important thing. The important thing is applying. Okay. All right. Yeah. Take care. Thank you so much. You, too.