 Hello. Hi. How are you? Good. How are you? I'm doing well. Thank you so much for talking today. Thank you for inviting. Can you start by telling me what you prefer to go by? Like what do you like to be called? Ginny? Ginny is fine. Okay. And welcome Ginny. Is there anything in particular that you want to talk about today? Something about streaming and how streaming is affecting my life. I don't know. I'm not sure. Just streaming. Okay. Sure. Yeah. I think streaming is great for a lot of people and it also like affects people's, it shapes people's lives quite a bit once you become a streamer. And so I'd love to talk to you about that. Can you tell us a little bit about how you also decided to become a streamer and how you became a streamer? I think how I became a streamer, it's like not too complicated. It's just like my brother was watching, my brother was more into live streaming and watching live streamers. And then I had no, I didn't watch stream, live stream that much. I only watched a little bit of like YouTube videos. And my brother suggested like you should become a streamer. And I was like, oh, okay. So I was like, okay, that sounds interesting. So I just gave it a try. And then that's how I started streaming. And do you have a sense of what your brother was thinking when he suggested that you became a streamer? Like that's a, you know, so I've never heard a sibling recommend that. I think because I used to play game a lot as a kid and my brother knows that. And then I still played a lot of games. So that's the reason why my brother was like, yeah, if you're going to like play a lot of games, how about like, why don't you just give it a try? But I think also at the same time, maybe I saw some YouTube videos and I was thinking like, I want to be a content creator as well. So deep inside, I had that feeling. So that's the reason why when my brother recommended it, I just decided to do it. I think. Yeah, that's awesome. When you saw YouTube videos, what appealed to you about content creation? What appealed to you about content creation? Yeah. I think so when I was a kid, my dream was to become a producer. Like I wanted to create my own content or on TV. But these days, Twitch, Twitch, like live streaming platform, this kind of stuff is like TV, but having your own channel. So, well, I think that probably is something that was kind of like appealing to me because I wanted to create my own content and then provide audience with whatever I'm thinking and then whatever I want to provide. Like, yeah. Yeah. So it sounds like you were thinking about making TV production from a young age. Do you have a sense of what? Kind of. What do you mean by kind of? I mean, as a kid, I had a lot of different dreams, not just TV producer, but I wanted to either become a cartoonist, like draw a cartoon or TV producer or create a game. So something related to like making something. Okay. So yeah. So something creative, whether it was cartoons or and so your brother suggested you become a streamer. And what were you kind of thinking that would be like? I didn't really think much. Like, for example, I definitely didn't expect me to become an IRL travel streamer. At first, I just wanted to become a game streamer because yeah, like, I don't know, I definitely didn't expect me to be a travel streamer, of course. What was the question? Yeah, I was just curious what you thought about before you started. But hey, why don't you tell us how did you become a travel streamer? Yeah, okay, so that's kind of a how did I become a travel streamer? So I used to be a PC streamer like first two years, I think, first two years. And then I started to have more Taiwanese viewers in the beginning. And then I decided to travel to Taiwan and travel a little bit stream IRL. And I really enjoyed it. And also, my viewers enjoyed it. So I decided to try more traveling. Because I think in general, my audience liked IRL streaming more. And then I kept doing IRL because I want to do what my audience wants to watch, kind of. Yeah. Okay. And so it sounds like you're a travel streamer because you like it, but they like it too. Exactly. I mean, I wouldn't be able to travel like nonstop like this if I didn't actually enjoy it. Because it's really difficult to move around every few days, going outside, like in a cold weather or hot weather, or something like that. So like, it's very exhausting to basically carrying a bunch of like, lockages and moving around every two or three days. So Yeah, that sounds like quite a bit. Sometimes it's difficult. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, what what's that like carrying luggage? Or I mean, how much stuff do you have? Like, what do you have to carry around if you're a travel streamer? So I carry around quite a lot. I used to carry much more. I had like seven bags or something. But now I've reduced it to still like three, three bags. Okay, so I had to carry around like my laptop streaming gears, and a lot of skincare products, because I got to use Korea skincare product. I had to use this like specific one. And so I had to like order a bunch and carry it around with me. So so that I don't run out of it. So that's heavy and a little bit of clothes, I think. But that still is like, really big. Yeah, I can imagine. So that sounds quite tiring to travel all the time, carrying this stuff around. How do you how do you manage that? How do you do with that? Um, I think I just do it even though it's like super tiring sometimes. And I'm like, Oh my god, like this is I'm exhausted. But what choice? What other choice do I have? I just gotta keep doing it. So I think that's the thing about me. I don't really care about my body or myself that much. I just like, put me in a situation where it's super exhausting for me. And then I just keep persevere through it's kind of style. Yeah. What what do you if you don't care about or prioritize your health, it sounds like or well being, what do you prioritize? Um, I think I prioritize my career, which I think, yeah. And I want to grow more as a streamer and content creator. And that is my priority at this moment. Because, like, as if I get like when I get older, it would be difficult for me to put this much effort into what I'm doing. So I think I put effort into what I'm doing. So while I can, I am trying my best to just like put all the energy into it. So, you know, I can go as far as I can while I'm in this field. Yeah. So I'm noticing that you're kind of thinking that maybe this opportunity is temporary, and you kind of have to make the most of it. Yeah, because live streaming is not I don't think it's I don't, especially for female streamer. I think I don't see it as a super long career that I can't like, I mean, I want to be travel streamer and live streamer as long as I want. I mean, as long as possible. But um, I think it's like, kind of compared to other career other field, I think it's kind of short lifespan. Because I don't know, it's changing a lot. There are it's super competitive. And yeah, well, that's why what helped me understand why especially you said like, kind of as a female streamer, why is why does that make it a short career? Based on my observation, past six years of being a streamer, I think a majority of audience, especially on Twitch is male. And because of that, I think like, for example, if you are male streamers are successful, I think you can stream for a longer time, for sure. But if you're a female streamer, and then if you I don't know, like, get it if you let's say if you get married, or you have kids or something, then I think even though like, it's not like viewers want to date the streamer, but still like if as a female streamer, if you are, if you are married, and you have kids or something like that, I feel like it affects a lot more to female streamer than male streamers, based on my observation of like other streamers. So because of that, I feel like in the future, if I were to settle down and then get married and have kids, I feel like it would be kind of difficult to stream as much as I'm streaming right now. Yeah, I can't I mean, basically, when you when you travel around with bags, that sounds like traveling with kids. Like when you've got kids, it's, it's a full time job. There's a they have extra bags that come with them. And I can't imagine doing that like all the time. Like I just went on a vacation with my kids. And for two weeks, it was a ton. I mean, it's fun, but it was also like really exhausting. Yeah. So with kids and live streaming, it's probably Yeah, it does sound pretty so I mean, that's something I not quite thought about. But it sounds like really, if you want to move forward with your personal life, you kind of have to sacrifice your career, like you can't do both. Yeah, for sure. Unless like I decided to become gaming streamers or something in the future. I mean, I could keep doing it, but it wouldn't be as successful as right now. That's for sure. But um, yeah, yeah, so like something, go ahead. It's something that I have to accept like in the in the in the end, like in the future, if I want to like change what I'm doing, and then decide to like settle down and then play games only, or, you know, because I have personal stuff going on, then it would definitely affect what I built so far. Okay. Can I ask kind of like random question? Can you can you teach me a little bit about this Korean skincare? Oh, Korean skincare. Um, I don't really do that much of a skincare. But um, I just do, so I apply serums, I remove makeup, wash my face, apply toner, and serum and I do the mask pack, and I fall asleep with it. That's that much. That's what you do. There were tons of other people who Yeah, go ahead. Oh, I mean, there were tons of other people who do a lot more. They have like devices to like massage your face or something like that. I have no time for that. And what does all that stuff do? Um, moisturizing skin, protect skins from drying out and basically have like a lot of protect skins from drying out and basically have less wrinkles. Okay. And is your understanding that wrinkles is caused by dry skin? Oh, I think it's, I mean, I can see from my hand. So for example, I've been applying tons of serums and stuff ever since I was young, but I never cared about my hand. And I think my face skin is a lot younger than my hand. And also I don't apply sunscreen too. So it's like, and traveling all the time. So I feel like skincare does really matter to put like, to stay look younger, young. Okay. And so like there's there's serum, there's toner, there's a mask of some sort. Yeah, like a moisturizing mask. And what does the serum do? It's just like, I think it just moisturizes skin. And then they have this good stuff inside that they say it's like really good for skin. And I apply it. I don't really know, but it's just like I do it and that I mean, before I buy it, I see reviews and just like, yeah, this is really good. And then I buy it and then I use it. And I guess it's, it's more like reduced. It's not like reducing wrinkle. It's more like maintaining, maintaining. So preventing the formation of new wrinkles. Yes. Yes. Wow. Okay. So I mean, it sounds like in some ways you take really good care of yourself. Um, skin wise, I mean, I used to not care much. So for example, I would sleep without removing makeup because I'm way too tired. Uh, but now I'm 31. So I decided to care better. I mean, I used to fall asleep without removing makeup almost every day, like last year. And then I wake up in the middle of the night at 2am and remove and then fall asleep again, something like that. It happens so often. Yeah. So it, okay. Thank you so much for explaining that. I know that like Korean skincare, my wife uses the stuff too. And there's, you know, always packages coming from the internet. And occasionally for like gifts and stuff, I'll like go into some Korean skincare store and I'll just buy some random things. I have no idea what works or what doesn't. Um, but she seems to like it. And, and so I'm, I'm also kind of wondering, like, I guess dudes use this stuff too, right? Yeah, I think dudes should use more stuff to take their, take care of their skin. Whenever I say that to my chat, they're like, oh yeah, that's, um, that's girly. That's too feminine. And like, it has nothing to do with that. It's just, you know, taking care of your skin. Yeah, absolutely. So kind of going back to the whole career thing. So it sounds like you, oh, testing one, two, three. Okay. Um, so it sounds like you kind of push yourself pretty hard. Sorry. Yeah, I was just saying. So, so it sounds like you push yourself pretty hard. Yes, I do push myself pretty hard. Um, for some reason, I think it's just like, uh, I don't know why I do that, but, um, I just love to do more challenging stuff all the time. How long have you been? And I feel like sort of satisfaction from doing it as well. Can you tell me about that? Sorry? Can you tell me about the satisfaction? Do I have that connection right now? One of us does. Oh, oh, sure. Um, yeah, I think my internet is kind of cutting out a little bit. Um, it's just like, for example, when you're playing difficult games like Dark Soul, and then it's so difficult. It's so frustrating while you're doing it. You're so bad. But once you finish the boss, once you kill the boss, you're just like, oh yeah. And then that adrenaline, that happiness, it's kind of like that happiness. It's kind of like that in life too. Like if, if I get something too easy, I feel like I didn't earn it and then I act, I really want to earn it. But even though sometimes I try really hard, the result is not as good. And then that happens of course in life. But, um, I think most of the time in my life, if I tried really hard for certain goals, I have achieved my goals. And then from that I get like satisfaction. So that, that's, yeah. So, so would you say the, I mean, so it sounds like you're chasing a lot of satisfaction. Like that, that's the reason you push yourself. Well, that's part of it. But, um, that satisfaction comes from, uh, career success. So for example, if I tried really hard and achieved something, but, um, my stream didn't do well, then I wouldn't be as satisfied and happy. But, uh, if I did really well, my stream as I planned, then I would feel good and more satisfied. Yeah, of course. So if your stream does better, right? So if you work really hard and you do a good job and your stream numbers are good or whatever, like then you feel more satisfied. Yeah. And, and how do you feel about the way you're living your life right now? Um, it's great. I think it's, it's complicated. Okay. So it's great, but also at the same time, it's tiring, but also at the same time, it's very satisfying. But, uh, I am very thankful. I'm trying to see, I'm trying to be like more appreciative about everything. And like, for example, traveling, even though it, it is exhausting sometimes, like traveling around all the time, but, um, I got to see and experience so many cool stuff and share that experience with the audience. And then I am trying to be very thankful for, you know, thankful for that because not everyone can do that, like traveling around our money. And then, you know, so I'm trying to be like, even though sometimes it is difficult, I'm trying to think like, oh yeah, like my, what I'm ha what I have is like such great things. I should be always thankful for it. Kind of like that. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like you have a lot to be grateful for. And in some ways you're like incredibly lucky and your life sounds pretty awesome in some ways. Yes. Yeah. But in other ways it sounds rough. It is rough. Yes. Because it's like, like, for example, you traveling is something that people like take a vacation and then they go for a few days or a few weeks and come back and then traveling itself is, uh, like, it's not like vacation. Sometimes some people come to my chat and say, like, you're always on vacation, but it's not vacation. Every time I hear that, I'm like, I get so triggered because they have no idea how like exhausting it is. It's not, it's not like I just go travel somewhere and sit down and eat food and then stay at a beach or something like that. It's not like that. I have to plan everything, check the internet, like with my mods and then traveling back and forth all the time. And then when I go outside, I always try to like move around and then take chat as much as, take chat to different places as much as possible. Always walking, always on the move. And after that, it's super exhausting. And then doing that every single day is definitely not a vacation. Of course, I'm very grateful and all the time. And then I try to, even though sometimes my body feels tired, I try to like be more thankful for it and then have more positive energy and then keep doing it and pushing myself to do it. But it's definitely not like easy. So I wouldn't say it's super easy way, but of course, very fulfilling. And I love traveling and streaming. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, it sounds like what is really what people don't understand is, is like you said, that that's not easy. So I'm hearing that there's a lot to be grateful for, but you actually like pay a pretty, pretty high price. Yeah. Because I cannot spend any time with my family and my friends, because a lot of my family's in Korea. So I see them what barely, what one, like few weeks a year. That's very little. Sounds like you make a lot of sacrifices. Yeah. I guess like when it comes to that kind of like stuff, meeting family and friends in Korea or it's because I'm always moving. So it's difficult to spend time with the people that I care about, because that's the reason why like I flew my mom and grandma recently for a little bit to travel in Europe. And then I had like so much fun with them. And then they had so much fun because we barely get to do stuff together every year. Like, so that is definitely a sacrifice that I have to make being a travel streamer. Yeah. I think Ginny, out of basically all the streamers I've talked to, I think you kind of take the cake for, it sounds like you don't actually get to have a life outside of your job. Not so much. No. But I think streaming, I consider streaming as part of like my huge part of my life. And something that I have to mainly focus on at this moment, when I have it, I want to do it, like do my best, basically. Yeah. I mean, I think it sounds like you made a lot of very intentional decisions about, because I'm like, here's what I'm hearing. And I'm not trying, you know, please let me know if I'm being judgmental or making things out to be worse. I'm not trying to, I'm just going to repeat back what I hear. Like, so when I think about like normal people, you know, they have a job. And then outside of their job, they have their life. And for a lot of people, the challenge is like, okay, how do I do less of my job so I can live my life more? For a lot of people, they don't like their job. Now, you sound like someone who, for the large part, like enjoys what you do. You're grateful for what you do. But I'm also hearing that you actually don't get to have a life outside of your job. Like, it sounds like your job consumes, you know, basically 24 hours of your day, like most days. A lot of times, yes. But it's, yeah. I was pretty, how do I say, it is true. But for now, I think that I feel like I have to do it like that. Because, well, in the future, when I get old and then because things always change. And I don't know how long I will be, you know, doing what I'm doing right now. So as long as possible, I'm going to try my best to, you know, do what I'm doing. So even though I have to make sacrifices, I'm just thinking like, okay, so if I really work really hard at young age, and later on, I can spend more time with my family and my friends in the future. So I'm more of a working really hard right now. And then I can spend more time with my friends and family in the future kind of person. Yeah, I guess. I don't know. And I almost feel like, can I think for a second? Sorry? Can I think for a second? Uh huh. I'm just thinking I'm not lagged. So it sounds to me like you're afraid to change the way that you live your life. I'm afraid. Yeah, I think. I am definitely afraid of changes, but also I think change is inevitable. So while it lasts, let's try the best. That's kind of like mindset that I have. And how are you? How's your stream going? Great. Of course, like all streams, as all streamers have, there's ups and downs, but I've had a pretty good year so far. I've had massive achievements and Waddle-thon all across the country, like that kind of stuff. And right now I am having a great time in traveling around Europe. Sometimes, like number wise, sometimes it's like not as good, of course, but overall I'm pretty satisfied. I think. Pretty tiring though, because I've been moving around like every two or three days in Europe. Yeah. And what does next year hold for you? Next year? What's going to happen next year? I want to try one more season of Waddle-thon. Like I want to walk across another country that is a little bit bigger than Taiwan, maybe. And probably go around, explore some other more new countries. But also at the same time, I think I want to try some bigger projects as well. Not just traveling, like past few years I just like did IRL and traveling, but next year I want to focus on more projects that involves something more than traveling. For example, I don't know, I want to create my own music songs and do the street concert with my own music as I travel around. Like that kind of stuff. Yeah. So it sounds like you're going to do more next year. I mean, every year I'm always like, oh yeah, okay, next year I'm going to become like, I'm going to do more, I'm going to do more. I think I've been like that, yes. Yeah. So I'm noticing like an internal desire to try to change your mind. But I don't think that's my place to try to change your mind. So it's like I'm kind of feeling internally conflicted. So you sound like you've thought this through. Huh? You sound like you've thought this through. And it sounds like you're super smart. It sounds like you've collected a lot of data. It sounds like you figured out something that's working for you. It sounds like you push yourself pretty hard. It sounds like you have a lot to be grateful for. Sounds like you're super tired. And it sounds like you're going to walk. Like walkathon sounds tiring. It is definitely tiring. And next year you're going to walkathon more. And if we're doing like street concerts, like that means you got to practice. That means you got to have another bag. That means maybe two bags. You know, and because that's what the job demands, right? Because if you don't do more and you don't do better and you don't do bigger, people start leaving. I think part of it is kind of like me wanting to grow more and more and more. That's a desire. Because I have the desire and the ambition. I am even though I don't have to, I'm just trying to keep like pushing myself to do more. Because I'm definitely an ambitious person, like very competitive and something like that. But also at the same time, at some point I do have to accept like, yeah, you got to stop doing so like crazy stuff because I got to start spending my time with family and friends and then I should start to have more personal life. And the reason why even though I know I have to like rest more and then spend more time on something else, I feel like I get like super anxious about like not doing it because it's like I've worked so hard to build what I have. But it's so difficult to build, but it's so easy to lose. Even though I'm always trying, I still lose. So I got to in order to be more successful than I got to do more stuff. And because of that, I am just like constantly trying to think of new stuff, trying to do more stuff. Yeah, what's it like to work? I mean, because it does demand a lot, right? So consistency, creativity, high energy, you can't be tired on stream, right? Yeah, I mean, I do say I'm tired on stream. I'm tired, but yeah, it's still even though I'm tired, I still got to do what I plan to do. That is true. And it's so easy for things to fall apart, right? Like if you take a break, like what happens? Have you taken a break? I mean, I do take like a few days off when I'm tired, like, oh, yeah, I'm tired. I'm going to sleep more. Yeah, I'm taking a day off today. Like today was my day off too. But it's just like one day is not enough. But also at the same time, I don't want to take more days off because if I take more days off, I feel like I'm like, losing behind. What is the word? Falling behind. Falling behind. Falling behind. Something like that. Yeah, I mean, it sounds like you have to run as fast as you can just to keep pace. Like, even if you're running as fast as you can, you're not really getting ahead. You're just. Yeah, very competitive build and people, especially with the new trend of a lot of like, I don't know, trends, everything is changing so fast and people move on from streamer A to streamer B to streamer C. They always move on depending on what other streamers are doing. And yeah, so because it's so competitive, I got to keep doing it and then try to survive in this competitive field. How confident are you in some of your conclusions? How confident? As in? Like, so you have these ideas, right? That like, if you take an extended break, things will get worse that you have to do. Wattlethon next year is going to be bigger, longer. I don't think it's going to be bigger because first Wattlethon was like really good. And also it was in Taiwan and Taiwan viewers are. Whenever it tends to be like that, whenever I'm in one country, that country viewers like come and watch all the time. But then whenever I leave the country, viewers from that country tends to leave too, like the new viewers who came. So Taiwan, after Wattlethon, I definitely have gotten more Taiwanese viewers that stayed, of course. But a lot of them definitely left as I left Taiwan too. But. I think it's very difficult to be as big as Taiwan because Taiwanese viewers are very eager to. They're very passionate people who love to watch what other streamers like foreigners are doing in their own country. And so it's not for just it's not for me, just for me, but also tons of other streamers when they go to Taiwan, they get like pretty big boost because they I think they love to watch like other people doing in their country. So I think it's very difficult to be as big as Taiwan because Taiwanese viewers are very eager to. Yeah, so I'm just I'm not quite sure. So first of all, it's like it's not my place to. Tell you what to do with your life, obviously, but I'm just I have some concerns about what I'm hearing, which is like, so you're kind of saying at some point you got to slow down. Right, but when when like how how do you know when you're going to slow down? So I have this vague idea what I want to do in the future. So when I hit the slow down button, I'm going to slow down. And then I'm going to slow down. So I have this vague idea what I want to do in the future. So when I hit 35, I think I'm going to stop traveling. And then because I love animals and then I love. Basically, I want to have a little bit of like small farm where I have I help animals rescue animals and live with them, taking care of them. And then I want to do that. And then make and then I can stream that, too. So I want to. So it sounds like you've got kind of like an end date in mind. So you're going to give it four more years. Well, for the travel streaming. I guess, but it could end early or it could last longer. Nobody knows. But that is probably the age that I feel like I kind of want to settle down in one place. And when did you when did you come up with that number? Thirty five. I don't know why I just said 35. But I mean, I don't know why I decided 35. But when when did you decide 35? Oh, I don't know. Like last year. OK. Yeah, last year because. So. I think after one or two years of always like moving around, I definitely got there. There were times I got burnt out. And then especially when, for example, transportation gets all messed up and then I have to like wait hours and hours for next transportation or get something that gets delayed. And then with tons of blockages, I'm super tired when that kind of stuff happen. I'm like, OK, this is I can only do this until like 35. Let's just do it until 35. I think I had that kind of thinking starting from last year. And then I feel like 35 is great age to kind of like settle down as well. Why is that? Not sure, because I feel like 40 is too long. Thirty one, thirty two, thirty three, thirty four is kind of like in the middle. Like, why? So 35 is like that age. Like, OK, 35. So not big reason. Just sounds right. Yeah. So, you know, that's what. It. What do you what do you want to talk about, Jenny? What kind of I want to talk about? Yeah, like, like I don't like I said, I feel sort of this impulse to. Contradict some of the things that you're saying, like I see some potential problems with like some of the way that some of the ways you're thinking about stuff, but it's like not my place. I mean, so I definitely have a lot of problems in my what I'm thinking. I what I'm doing, how I'm living my life is definitely not healthy. And I am aware of it. But also at the same time, I'm like, yeah, OK, bottom. That's what I want to do. And then in order to be more successful, I got to be more successful. OK, bottom. That's what I want to do. And then in order to be more successful, I got to be more Carter. Kind of like that, but because I'm Asian and the Asians, especially in Korea, like we tend to be like super competitive, grow up in very, very competitive background. I just cannot relax. I got to keep doing it or else I'm going to be like very anxious and very anxious about stuff. Very problematic, very unhealthy. And I think I am aware of it. But also at the same time, I don't know, like if I want to relax because I'm afraid I'll get more anxious if I relax. Yeah, I got to figure out relax, relaxing without being so anxious. But I don't know. Yeah, I mean, that sounds like some pretty bad. Like if if relaxing makes you anxious, you know, it's kind of like if eating makes you hungry or like sleeping makes you tired. Like, you know, that sounds not great. Yeah, it's not that good. I think it's people. But it has gotten better, though, because before it was a lot worse. Like if if my life revolved around streaming. Like 90 percent before now, it's like. 60, 70 percent like I try to have more balance between having my own life and streaming. I think at least that's what I'm trying to do. How's that working? I think it's working pretty I think it's working better than before. Because the problem with that, my life being completely revolving around streaming is when that when it was like that viewers, there were audience like viewers who were also very, very deeply involved in my life as well, because I basically share everything. What's going on in my life. And that's the reason why there were a lot of people who felt like who felt like they are entitled to know everything. And in the end, when I didn't share, then there were a situation where they got mad or something. And then whenever that kind of boundaries between audience and me, it became very blurry. I decided like, OK, I'm going to start like not sharing too much and then I'm not going to put my entire life like show and tart. I'm not going to like revolve my life totally around streaming because I think that's unhealthy. So I try to like separate between streaming and not streaming. Like I try to separate because I felt like that's more healthy. Yes. Yeah. I mean, I think that boundary sounds very healthy. And then I think the other thing that's really kind of subtle there is that I think what you did there is carve out life outside of streaming, too. That's what sounds really healthy to me. Carve out life out of streaming. Yeah. So it sounds like for a long and even today, to a certain extent, most of your life is streaming. But the moment that you start blocking some off some stuff off, a part of your life becomes not streaming. So, for example, when it was just about streaming, I didn't I didn't spend time with like my university friends basically because I was too busy with streaming. And then even off stream, I was always on online on like this board of my community talking to them. And it was just like all the time like that. And now, whenever I'm not streaming, I tend to talk to people who's not related to stream so that I don't have to talk about streaming anymore. I talk about other stuff like life or what they do, something like that. And then I think I started doing this since last year. I hung out with my university friends more and basically talk about life that is not streaming. And I felt great, like kind of like liberated feeling because my life was just like for years and years. It was just about streaming, streaming, streaming, how to grow, how to get more viewers, even like my friends were streamers. So whenever we talk, we're like, OK, like how to grow more like, oh, yes, streaming live, blah, blah, blah. And whenever I was hanging out with my university friends, I was like, yeah, like, oh, yeah, what do you do these days? Oh, I'm making this games for this company. Oh, yeah, I'm playing golf as hobby. Oh, yeah, I want I'm dating this girl these days. I kind of conversation that is not about streaming. I was like, wow, this feels pretty good. You know, kind of like feeling like having my life back a little bit from streaming. I mean, don't get me wrong, I love streaming and that I love spending time with my audience. But also at the same time, I was too like deep inside. Yeah. Almost to the point if I don't stream, I feel like depressed and that is not healthy, obviously. So how do you understand that? Because I had some times where when I was not streaming or whatever, it's just like I felt very unsettled, like, oh, my God, like, what am I going to do without streaming? Like, oh, I got to know streaming. What am I going to do? Or whatever, even when I'm taking a day off and relaxing, I'm always on like Discord or whatever, trying to like communicate. And then it got very unhealthy at some point because there were definitely a lot of people who were trying to say, I'm not sure. I don't know. I just figured like it's not too healthy, like how I was living. So and then I felt pretty stressed and unhappy and depressed at certain point, like a few years ago, a year or two years ago. And I was like, OK, I should stop living like this. I should try to have more life that is not about streaming. It should be healthier, I think. OK. And when you made more life outside of streaming, how did that affect your streaming? I think it became a lot better because viewers tend to be less. How do I say? I think there used to be a lot of people who would want to prove my personal life, but I don't have that anymore because I feel like I am. They understand that I'm trying to have like streaming streaming and then non streaming, non streaming like you should have. My viewers encourage me to take more days off, relax, have your own life. They do that and because they know that that is healthy. So ever since I started doing that, I think it got a lot better. I am happier when I'm streaming and yeah, I think it's been better. OK. Can I think for a second? How does this conversation feel to you so far? Like it's good. It's good. I like I like talking about. This kind of stuff. OK. Yeah. Can I think for a second? OK. Can I just share what I'm sort of hearing and like a couple of things I've learned? Are you OK if I screen share with you and like draw some stuff out? Sure. OK. So. First of all, Jeannie. I think you're amazing. Like this is super cool. It's like so cool to hear what your life is like, what your journey is like. I really, I really think it's great. I think you clearly have thought a lot about what you want your life to be. I think it sounds like you've made a lot of positive changes. It sounds like you really succeeded as a streamer, which is a very hard thing to do. Right. It's hyper competitive. It demands so much of you. And and I'm also hearing like a lot of stuff that I kind of hear from people a lot, which I don't think is ideal. So like this is me placing a judgment, but it's not I'm not saying that it's right or wrong. I'm just going to share with you like a different perspective. And this is having it. So it sounds like you're Korean. I am. So, you know, having worked with a fair number of Korean people and it's not just Koreans that are like this. You know, there are all kinds of people all over the world who are like this. And what I'd like to do is just take a few minutes to kind of like map out what I see is sort of like this is true of you. But I mean, I think it's true of a lot of people of like, OK, like I got to work really hard. I have to work hard and I want to work really hard for an hour. If I relax, I fall behind. I have to run at top speed just to like not fall behind. Like you're not gaining any ground. So you can't take breaks. You can't relax and you can't even do the same amount of work like next year. You have to do more. Right. You have to like waddle fun again. tension between, okay, I gotta slow down, I gotta cut back, I gotta move from six bags to three, and then next year we're gonna add a bag of music stuff. So there's this constant tension of I gotta cut back on stuff and I gotta do more. And you're kinda stuck in this way, right? And you make progress, but that's what's weird. And then the other thing that tends to happen is a lot of times people will come up with some arbitrary thing. They're like, okay, yeah, I'm gonna slow down when I'm 35, right? I'm gonna slow down at this arbitrary time. And when you're 30, 35 makes sense, right? Because it's far enough away to where you can grind for five years of your life. So it's not like you have to actually slow down anytime soon, because slowing down anytime soon is scary, right? So we wanna push it far away, but you also pick a number that doesn't screw you. If you slow down at 35, there's enough of life left to live that you can enjoy. Whereas if you slow down when you're 40, then it's hard to have kids and then you're kinda getting older and all this kinda stuff. So there's kinda number, and it sounds like a really good number. Sometimes what I see is that when people come up with this kinda arbitrary number, the forces that keep them going today will still be present when you're 34. Right? So what drives you on a day-to-day basis, I don't know is gonna change over 32 or 33 or 34. If you do Waddle-Thon next year and it does better, then it's good, but you're also kinda screwed because the lesson that you learn is like, okay, if I like Waddle-Thon longer, I will do better and I will grow. And if I grow before the internet gets bored of me and find someone else, so next year if I Waddle-Thon more, then it'll grow even bigger. So doing more leads to better results, which is a fundamental assumption I wanna challenge, by the way. But does that make sense? How am I doing so far? Does this feel like we're on the right track or off or does it feel judgemental? Am I overstepping? No, no, no. I'm listening and it sounds about right, yes. Okay. Let's take a look at this and I'm gonna kinda try to map a couple things out. And then all I'd really like to do is just encourage you to think about a couple of things and really think about some of the assumptions and some of the ways that you kinda make decisions. I'm not saying you're doing anything wrong. I'm not saying that you can even do anything better. It sounds like you're doing a fantastic job. It sounds like you're practicing gratitude. It sounds like you're taking more time off. It sounds like you've started to set more boundaries. It sounds like your content is actually doing better, that people like the stuff that you're doing more, that you're cultivating a healthy community. I'm hearing win after win after win after win after win after win after win. Is that fair? Hopefully, yeah. I mean, would you agree with everything that I just said or was I wrong with that? I don't think you're wrong. I mean, of course there are... It's not always win. There's definitely lose sometimes. I cannot win all the time. And... How does it feel to not be able to win all the time? I mean, I'm fine with it, I think. Because that's life. I cannot win all the time. I mean, before I struggled with it, I'm like, why am I not getting better when I'm trying so hard? Why? So unfair? It used to be like that. But I'm like, it happens. And you just gotta accept and then move on. Try to do better next time. Sure. So, OK, here is Ginny. And Ginny is a good Korean girl. Right? Yeah. Which means that Ginny wants to be successful. Yep. And being successful involves working hard. Right? Sacrificing. Ginny is also well aware that hard work is not enough to be successful in your field. That the internet gets bored. Yeah. Very easily. Very easily. Which means that if Ginny wants to be successful, she doesn't know when the internet is going to get bored and move on to someone else. Which means that if you want, the window for success that you have is limited. Right? And then what that means is that you won't be able to grind later, so you gotta grind now. Right now. Because who knows? Who knows? And there's all kinds of other resilient coping stuff that Ginny does. So she learns to practice gratitude. Right? You're being grateful. You're setting boundaries. So it sounds like you're making actually a lot of progress in a lot of ways. You were even more exhausted. I mean, you were carrying around six suitcases or seven suitcases and now it's only three. Yeah. But there's a couple of basic problems. Okay? So this is the first one. The internet gets bored. Right? So your window is limited. The second is that you gotta grow in order to not die. Right? So you gotta run...whatever you do this year, you gotta do more next year. Right? Yeah. So like, you're gonna need to like...and how...out of zero to a hundred percent, how much are you giving right now? I guess pretty like 90 percent, I guess, this year so far. I've been going around so many different places. Not just the Waddle Thumb, but also like chasing tons of events that I find it fun. Even after Waddle Thumb, people thought I would like take quite a long times off, but I didn't. I was always moving every two days, three days. It sounds to me like you're giving a hundred percent. A hundred percent? Ninety percent? Ninety percent? I would say 90 percent. Could you ever give a hundred percent? Have you ever given a hundred percent, Jenny? Or is a hundred percent theoretical? A hundred percent theoretical? I'm not really sure what exactly is a hundred percent. Right, okay? So which means that like you could be giving a hundred percent and you wouldn't even realize it. A hundred percent would be kind of like this. So I am not just trying to grow Twitch. I'm also trying to grow like YouTube and TikTok and other stuff. And then I've always thinking like, okay, I'm gonna make more content for YouTube and TikTok as well, but I'm like spending so much time on Twitch so I don't really have time. And then 100 percent would be, okay, after streaming, I'm making more content for YouTube and TikTok and posting there too. So but that's not physically possible or mentally possible, right? So this is my point. I mean, it is possible. So for example, if I, so this is, there are a few things I do off stream to relax. Like I play some games. I watch Netflix just laying down, watch some shorts. And if I, instead of doing that, instead of watching other people's shorts, if I make my own shorts, instead of playing games, if I put more time in creating videos for YouTube and TikTok, then I could do that. That's like 100 percent, but it's not having my own time. So I'm like, you know what? I stream hard. I deserve some like free time. So I like. So 100 percent is perfect, right? This is being perfect. This is being perfect. Perfect in work, sure. But yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Very healthy. Yeah. So so. But I mean, that's what I'm saying is like, practically having worked with human beings, you're a human being. I guess I know it's going to sound kind of weird. And this is exactly what I'm talking about. I think you're basically given 100 percent. I don't think you've got a whole lot left to give. Like, sure. Like, sure. In theory, like if you were a perfect human being with infinite amounts of energy, you could be growing other platforms simultaneously. But like, you're a human, right? And the human body gets tired. Unfortunately, like the human body sometimes like needs to talk to friends and sometimes like needs to see family and and sometimes needs to not take off their makeup before the human body passes out. Yeah. Like, so if we consider that the human body is a imperfect instrument and we don't have to go like too much back and forth on this. But like, I think you're given way closer to 100 percent than you are to 90 percent. Maybe. It has always. That's why I'm always thinking, oh, it'd be so good if I had like two bodies, you know. Right. So so OK, so let's just think about that for a second. Right. So if you're at the point where improving substantially involves adding a second body, maybe we're close to maxing out our first body. Yeah. Right. Like, you know, like if we have to like duplicate yourself in order to be more efficient, maybe we're like topping out on what you're capable of. Yeah. Right. So like like sounds about right. So if you duplicate yourself, then you could go to 200 percent. But if you're like moving to two, that means we're pretty close. Like we're like we're at 99. You know, I think practically like I think if you worked 10 hours more a week, like I don't think you could take it. What do you think about that? If I worked 10 hours more, I mean, yeah, that would be pretty difficult. Right. And yeah. Anyway, I mean, like we can go back and forth. I'm just going to kind of point this out and encourage you to sort of think about how much you're really giving. And that like I know that from a theoretical perspective and as a good Korean girl, unless you're perfect, you can do better. Right. Because that's that's what I mean, being Indian in some ways is very similar. Where unless you're perfect, you can do better. And OK, so this is kind of like your situation. Right. So then I think another thing to really consider is emotions. So there are a couple of other things that I've heard. One is that satisfaction is really important to you. But what makes you feel satisfied? Um, it's very difficult because I don't really get satisfied enough. Like, for example, like even when I feel like even when a lot of people say, yeah, you have a pretty good stream, but I feel like I have very high standard or something. I'm like, yeah, I don't know. It wasn't like as good. I'm always not happy about something about my stream, even though I tried hard, like something could have been better or something. I think I tend to focus on what could have been better than what was good. So that's the reason why I don't feel that satisfied with my streams pretty often. OK, so where does satisfaction come from? Um, that's where I come from. I don't know. OK, very good. So now we're getting to like the stuff that I want you to think about. Right. So you said that satisfaction is very important to you. It sounds like good outcomes plus effort sometimes leads to satisfaction. But now we're running into kind of like a tricky thing, which is that we don't really know where satisfaction comes from. And it seems like sometimes even doing a good job doesn't make you feel satisfied. But feeling satisfied is very important to you. It is. So I think it's just outcome and result. So if the result is good, then I am satisfied. If the result is bad, then even though I try really hard, I wouldn't be as satisfied. So there are a lot. It's very unpredictable because, for example, I'm not doing as I'm not putting as much effort on stream on that day. But then result is so much better than the other day that I tried harder. OK, we're going to get to effort and reward in stream in a few minutes. OK. But so here's my question to you. So. You don't know what satisfies you, right? Like. Oh, you said results. Yeah, results. OK, so let me ask you something. What kind of results satisfies you? For now, because I am focusing on streaming and content creating that kind of stuff. So if I have good numbers, how do you define good numbers? Like better than usual. OK, hold on a second. Number and. What do you think about that? It's very unhealthy. Why? And I think because OK, so number is something that is totally not controllable. It depends. It relies on so many different stuff. And it's very difficult to predict how if the number is going to be good, number is going to be bad or something like that. So I don't think it completely relates to how hard I try because there will be days like. Jimmy, better than usual, right? Better than usual. So like this is a huge problem. What's the problem? What's the problem? The problem is that like no amount of satisfaction is going to be anything near permanent. It's always going to be temporary and you got to do better. It's better than usual. So if you pull in, let's say, 10K viewers a day, then your satisfaction requires 11K. And if it requires 11K, then when you turn when you're like 34 and six months and you're pulling in like 80,000 viewers a day and then you're going to look at yourself and you're going to be like, oh no, I dropped down to 78 and you're going to be unsatisfied. OK, but then the thing is, OK, so. Talk to chat about this, too, I think. So. I want to have. Like 10K viewers stable, stable. If I were to have 10K stable viewers, if I grow that much, then if I drop from, let's say, someday I got 15K viewers and then I dropped to 11K the other day, I wouldn't be like, I don't think. How did you come up with the five or the 10K number? It's like very difficult number to reach, but also at the same time, I've reached it a few times. I mean, especially when I was doing a wildathon that Taiwan people boost was like keeping me at 10K like a lot of time for two months or something. So I'm like, OK, if I have reached a few times, then I have potential to reach that point. I just got to try really hard and then grow and then try to maintain that number. It's super difficult, but I've been trying to do that like since years. There's always up and down, of course. So this is what tends to happen as human beings. We take our best performance and we shoot for a target for that is our baseline. Right. So it is like very high. And then I plan to achieve it by doing harder, more work. You're going to call yourself. I call myself. And then if I reach that point, like if I reach that point, once I reach that point, the stable 10K is in like, for example, there is no such I don't think there is such thing as stable 10K bottom. At least like going around like up and down around that area, I would still be satisfied. But then what if that becomes usual? If that becomes usual, then. I would be like, you mean stable 10K is unusual and I'll be happy. So that's what I'm concerned about is I'm concerned that generally speaking, what leads you to satisfaction is doing better than usual. Right. So if 10K becomes usual, you may move the target. I think. So I felt that when I was in when I was doing what I thought in Taiwan, I've I think I've even reached like 20K or something. But then that was like starting boost and then it stabilized and they stayed around like 10K to like 13K later on, like something like that. Ginny, was there a time that you would have been happy with stable 5K? Oh, yeah, of course. I mean, I was happy. So, OK, this is kind of I don't think I've ever shared this. So I am always have goals. And I whenever I start to decide to do something, I always write down in my notes. I've been doing that ever since I was a kid. I was write down on my note. What's my goal for doing this? What's my goal for doing that? And then even when I first started streaming, I had this note of writing down the number like goal. OK, so after starting one year of streaming, I want to reach at least 1000 viewers. After like two years, I want to reach at least like this much. I had like this goal writing down like, OK, and in order to achieve it, I have to do this, this, this. Maybe I could try this, this, this. Like, you know, I had this note that I write down about what I want to do and my plans and my goals and everything. And my goal definitely happened way faster than I planned. And then I was very happy. And what happened afterwards was OK, so I achieved. Now I got to maintain and then I was maintaining. I was doing good. And I got more viewers at some point and reached sometimes like 10k even. And then then I think a few years I was going up and down like from four to five to seven to 10k to like four to five k again. Like it has been like that all the time. And then I decided to have like, oh, yeah, I want to have stable 10k viewers after. I mean, since like 2021, I think, because before then I was just maintaining the current number that I was having. But then after reaching 10k a few times, I'm like, OK, you know what? I want to have like stable 10k viewers. That's my goal. So I made that as my goal now. So I'm like trying to achieve that goal. And I'm the type of person who's like, OK, I made this goal. So I'm just going to try my best and then push myself hard until I reach that goal. It was just like super difficult. Yeah. So what happens when you reach your first goal? Are you satisfied? Yeah, when I first reached my goal, I was like, oh, oh, not when you first reach your goal. OK, sure. But then what happens a month later? Months later, I was more like focusing on maintaining and then trying to grow more. But that wasn't the end goal. So, for example, I wanted to grow like, OK, one k to two k to three k, blah, blah, blah. But 10k was after like four years, five years streaming, I realized, OK, having stable number of viewership is very difficult. And I would not be more greedy. And then I would not be like doing crazy stuff as I am doing right now. Once I reach that goal, I've kind of like made a promise with myself like, OK, I'm not going to be super. I'm not going to try to bigger goals than that. Like, for example, 10k is different from the other goals. Kind of. You're promising yourself that you're not going to ask more of yourself. Kind of. Yes, because I know I'm asking. And how good are you at keeping promises to yourself? I think. Pretty good, maybe. I'm not really sure. OK, is this something that you've done often? Or do you rarely make promises to yourself like this? I mean, I make promises to myself all the time, though, but it is difficult to keep it. All the time as well. For example, when I have that habit and then I'm like, OK, after this, I'm not going to do it. But then another day I'm doing it. OK. Yeah, so this time it was also kind of. But I think whenever I was doing Taiwan Waddle Thon and then getting that high viewership. I. Was. Not super. Like stressed or not unsatisfied. From number being dropped from let's say 15 to 10k. I don't think I was like unsatisfied with it. So I feel like I can keep that promise. Like once I reach that 10k stable, I'll be like satisfied more. But even right now, I am satisfied with what I have. I mean, having like four to five K viewers. When I'm like, you know, just traveling around and chilling, not really doing something super crazy or super special, I still have like that many viewers. And that's a lot already. So I am happy streaming and then I don't get stressed because I didn't hit six K today or seven K today. OK, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. So this is like this is really interesting, right? Because you said earlier that better than usual is what leads to satisfaction. But now you're telling me that you're not unsatisfied with a drop from 15k to 10k. And that you're actually satisfied with four to five K and you're kind of chilling. So it's kind of like this. Of course, I am not satisfied with the number itself. Sure. But before I was more like, oh, my God, I'm sad because of like this. If I was like that before, now I am like, OK. Even though it wasn't as good as I thought it would be, you still had this many people watching you. That is already like pretty good job. And I should be more thankful. So I have I have changed my mindset for I was more negative about like numbers. I was more stressed about it. Now I'm like, OK, you could have done better. Sure. Yeah, right. So so I think that's really important because understanding that. So what I'm hearing is that your satisfaction comes from your mindset, not your numbers. Hmm. It's how I say, OK, so. Let's say the number was not to my satisfaction. OK, so, Ginny. So I understand that when I say something like that, your answer is like, yes, but the numbers are still important. It really depends on the numbers. Right. Yeah, I know. It's like it's complicated. It's different feelings from satisfaction. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So that's what we're going to get into. OK. So my point is that, like, if we look at satisfaction, it's like actually kind of weird and complicated. Right. Like sometimes it kind of depends on the numbers and you have a lot of like really good rational reasons for the goals that you want. But if we look at the emotion of satisfaction, we've got to be kind of careful because sometimes that satisfaction does come from the numbers. Like when your numbers are better than usual, you're going to feel great no matter what. Right. But there are other times where you've discovered that your satisfaction. If we were to say this is the satisfaction bucket, maybe somewhere over here, this is numbers and this is mindset. And your satisfaction used to be like this, where it's mostly numbers. And recently, like you moved the mindset thing over here so that now it's like more mindset and less numbers. Right. You can be satisfied with four to five K concurrence if you're kind of chill and you're kind of vibing, you're having a good time. But that's it's kind of like this. If I start to be more satisfied with. OK, I'm saying this is like kind of unhealthy. Also, at the same time, I the reason why can I give it a shot before you. So if you start getting satisfied with four to five K and you stop striving, then you're like that's you're doomed. You don't want to be satisfied with four to five K. That sounds like a terrible strategy. Uh huh. Right. It's like so it's like this. I am not. I mean, I am going to keep trying hard to provide with good content and then try to grow. And then I'm going to keep pushing myself hard. But whenever I couldn't, whenever I didn't get the result that I wanted, instead of feeling sad or upset, I should be thankful. So that is the so it's not really I'm satisfied with four to five K number. It's not like that. But it's like, OK, I still have a lot of people watching me and enjoyed my stream. So I should be thankful about that. Yeah. So you're doing something weird. So let's let's. Oh, yeah. Right. So so what you do is you feel unsatisfied. And then you gratitude your way out of it. Right. You say I shouldn't feel this way. Instead, I'm going to choose to be grateful, which is healthy. But do you see that that's what you're doing? I think so. I think it's better than feeling upset and then, oh, man, why didn't I do better? Right. Right. Right. It's better than but but let's acknowledge that you feel upset and unsatisfied. And then you manage those emotions through developing gratitude. Maybe. But, um, yeah, I guess. But I wouldn't be I don't feel upset because I didn't do better than usual. I just feel like, oh, well, today was a little worse than I thought. Well, I guess I'll try harder next time. But why do you feel upset? I mean, I don't think I feel upset because I didn't do better. But I just feel like, oh, yeah, well, I guess I'll do better next time or something like that. Right. So if you say I'll do better next time, who are you talking to? Like, does that make sense? Who am I talking to? You're like talking to yourself, right? You're consoling yourself. I guess, yes. Right. So you don't need to console yourself like you console people who are feeling hurt or disappointed in some way. Right. So, yeah, let me let me just finish a couple things and then maybe we'll be able to piece it together. Maybe it'll I mean, I'm not saying I'm right here. It's just something for you to think about. So there are a couple of other things. So sometimes I think you experience fear. Right. Uh huh. Sometimes you get anxious when you relax. And it sounds like you're doing a lot better with this. Uh huh. OK. So and that's tricky. Right. So if you start to like relax a little bit, you start to worry about am I going to hit my targets? How much time do I have left? You know, I need to be growing. Otherwise, I'm like things are going to be shrinking and someone else is going to be doing the same thing. I'm going to be shrinking and someone else will show up. Right. And so then like this pushes you. And the other interesting thing is that if you're growing right and you hit 10 K stable, then you you can you have ammo to fight the fear and anxiety because you've got 10 K stable. You don't need to be afraid. Right. So 10 K stable also gives you security. Yeah. I mean, tell me if I'm wrong. Security. Um, I mean, but to be honest, I know, like, even after I reached 10 K, there's no such thing as stable 10 K. Like it will because even that maintaining is big, super difficult. So you're telling me that even with stable 10 K, there's still fear. Yeah, of course. Like, I think everybody will have such fear. Like, like, for example, unless you're like really top of the top and no matter what you do, you'll always get like high numbers unless you're kind of like bad point. I think every Schumer always will have a little bit of this insecurity with the number. And then even when you reach the point where you're always getting 10 K, you I mean, you cannot maintain that forever. So, Jenny, this is the thing. Okay. I'm going to stop screen sharing with you. Okay. So here's the crazy thing. So this is like what I'm trying to work my way to. So you're right. Right. So even the biggest streamers don't feel secure at big numbers. So my whole point to you is that the way you feel and your performance are completely independent. So this is what we've done. So like now I've got data to back this up. At this point, we've worked with 400 content creators. And what we tend to see in 12 weeks is an increase of viewership or sub count by 171 percent at 12 weeks without increasing the amount of work they do by a single hour. Right. So people will like see huge improvements in numbers. And this is like big, big streamers. We're talking like even people who pull in 30 K plus concurrence or people who pull in like 30 K. I mean, 30, 30 and 30 K across the spectrum, but more people on the smaller end. And so like here's the wild thing. Right. So like what I'm hearing from you is that a lot like so I think goals is good. Moving towards things is good. But what I'm noticing is that your emotional state gets tangled up with your goals. So the way that you manage your fear is to do better. Right. So it's like if I can do better, then my fear will improve. But now so then it's like, OK, if you get 10 K stable, like what's you get some security. Right. So, OK, like now I've made it and you're telling me that that's your special number. That's not like any of the other goals. But then if I ask you, will that like satisfy you, you're kind of like, well, maybe the answer to everything is like, well, maybe. Right. And that's not you're not wrong. You're actually very right. This is the point. Anytime your mind says, well, maybe that means that there's something there to be understood. We need to tease it apart and understand what are the variables in the equation. Because what I'm actually hearing from you is that setting more boundaries, carving out more of a life is increasing your satisfaction and improving your numbers. That sacrificing less and spending some time with your family doesn't seem to be overall negatively hurting your trajectory. Yes, but it's probably because I am even though I am trying to have more of my life, I am definitely not doing that much. Like, for example, after two months of BattleFan, I stayed in Korea for two days, spent time with my friends one day, immediately left for Europe with my mom and grandma. So and so that's actually still like that is more spending time with friends and family than before. Sure. But still definitely not enough to. Part my numbers are so how much time hurts your numbers? Well, can't really tell, though, because there are those situations where people take a break. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Listen to yourself because you're saying, OK, like the reason it didn't hurt my numbers is because I only spent two days. Right. It's very vague fear. So I don't know. So I could take a month off and come back. I could still have what determines how much time. So you don't know what amount of time is going to hurt your numbers, right? Objectively, you don't know that. What determines how much time you spend with your family? What determines how do you decide to spend two days? Um, I mean, it was just like according to the plan and schedule and then some of the stuff that I had to do. So I only I barely I mean, I only had two days because I had like other upcoming schedule that I made. So that's the reason why drove that schedule. How did that schedule get made that way? Um, I mean, why don't I got delayed a lot? So it was supposed to be only like a month, but it became like two months. And that because it was harder than I thought. So I already had like some sponsorship on that week that I had to do in Europe. So I had to be in Europe in order to keep that, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Something like that. So. OK. So what? This is going to be silly question. There's like no way that you could have adjusted that schedule, right? Uh, I mean, my schedule always changes, so it's really hard to predict. So what determines whether how your what's the driving force behind your schedule? Like what what's the anchor? You driving force. How would it feel to take if things got delayed, right? And let's say like, how would it feel to have not kept to the next thing? Or cut back on on Waddle Thon? Oh, you mean what do you mean by cut back on Waddle Thon? I don't know. So you said like it got delayed, right? So like any time there's a cut, because that's the thing. You don't make cuts, right? Stuff gets added to your schedule, but nothing gets taken off. I mean, so things take longer. Things get added and keep. Yeah, I keep adding stuff. Does anything ever get cut? I feel like I feel like I like. Maybe some stuff like some stuff that I promised to do with chat that I've not been doing. So some stuff that I feel like. How does it feel to cut things from your schedule? I mean, if it's like major stuff, I would not cut it. Like, for example, I would like I'm doing this challenge walking across the country. Let's do it. I'm so tired. You know what? I'm going to stop here. I would never do that. Right. Yeah. But if it's just like, OK, guys, I'm going to finish this game. I'm going to stop here. I'm going to stop here. If it's just like, OK, guys, I'm going to finish this game. But so what I'm saying is like, I think it's like unthinkable. To cut something like that, right? Like you could never like cut something big. Oh, yeah, never. Like, why not? Well, because it's just it's going to be I will. I will. I will be disappointed in myself. And also, my viewers will be like, wow. Um, like. You know, my viewers will also be disappointed, I feel like. Like, for example, I made this like huge challenge. OK, let's do this. And then all of a sudden, I'm like, what? I'm not going to do it. Then that make they create this precedent. Like, oh, OK, Jenny will kind of give up if it finds like, you know, difficult or something. I don't want to have that. I don't think I want to have that. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So so like what I'm hearing is that would feel very hard. Is it OK that I'm asking you this stuff? You sure? Yeah. OK. So like, here's kind of what I'm noticing. Just something for you to think about. So a couple of things is that I don't think you're doing anything wrong. And I'm sorry. Am I making sense? Is this OK? Are you feeling like we're disconnected? No, no, no, no. I think you're interpreting what I'm saying really well. And then there are a lot of contradictions like, oh, I think that's life. Like, that's what I'm feeling. I'm very, very contradicted all the time. I'm like, I want to rest, but also at the same time, I got to work. Sometimes I just relax is fine, but also at the same time, no, I got to keep doing it. I'm always contradicted my feelings, my emotions all the time. It's kind of like that. And I think we're hearing that in this conversation. Right. So like when you tell me something and I repeat it back to you, what do you say? Like, you'll like contradict it. So I'll say like, OK, what leads to satisfaction? You're like results above the norm. And then I'll be like, OK, tell me when you've been satisfied. And you're like, well, I was a four to five K concurrence and I was satisfied. And I dropped in and I was satisfied. And then I was like, oh, OK, so it's not this thing. Right. And you're like, no, no, no, no. But it is that thing because this. So this is this is, I think, what is so fucking confusing about your life and why I think it's hard in a lot of ways. This is why you do things that you regret. And then you don't learn your lesson. Right. Because when you're really, really exhausted, you'll say to yourself, you'll promise yourself, right. Like, no, I need to take more breaks. And then you wake up the next day, you're like, fuck the break. Yeah. Right. Waddle Thon was delayed and it was exhausting. And should we do it again? Well, in a slightly larger country, because it needs to be bigger and better. And how much do you have left to give? Are you at 100 percent? Well, you don't think it's 100 percent because no Korean in the history of humanity has ever done 100 percent effort, except for your neighbor's kid who's at the top of their class. And you should be more like them. Yeah. Right. But I've never. It's everyone else thinks that other Korean kids are doing 100 percent. That's what 100 percent looks like. That kid down the street, but not you. So this conflict, I think the reason you're so conflicted is because I think there's a lot more emotion here than you realize. And the one thing I would encourage you to really think about is that your performance as a streamer is independent of your emotional state. And similarly, your emotional state or your satisfaction with your streaming career is independent of your performance, which is weird. It's very contradictory. I've tried to work with Korean e-sports teams who have never like I've just done work with them for weeks. And this is something that we've just agreed to disagree and they just never see it my way. I'm not saying my way is right. I never understand their way. That's an equally good way of putting it. At this point, I've got some data behind it. So what I and I think you've even you're discovering this like through your raw need for surviving this fucking thing that you're doing, which is like really, really awesome and also takes so much out of you is that you've got to set boundaries. But if I had asked Jenny two years ago, can you set boundaries around your personal life and your professional life? You would have said no. Right. The viewers come to see everything that I am. And if I try to show if I close anything off, people will get upset and they will leave. Maybe. Yeah. So I hear a lot of moving goalposts. I hear that fear is a big part. And that's normal. I'm not saying that this is like a problem. This is true of all streamers. And this is what I'm saying, like even working with people who are 30 K 40 K 50 K 60 K concurrence or whatever, like they a lot of them. Well, some of them struggle with it and some of them don't. The difference is that the ones who don't struggle with that didn't struggle with it at 2K or 5K or 10K either. That you can plan to do better. Right. Like you can plan good content. I don't know if this kind of makes sense, but you can work on a project and you can plan it really well and it can do really well. But you don't need to be afraid or satisfied to have that content do well. Like the planning of the content and figuring out how to increase your concurrence, how to like stream more effectively, how to give your audience, there's all that process is absolutely there. But that doesn't need to be tangled up with your internal emotional state or your satisfaction or your sense of self worth. And I think the reason that you're conflicted is because those two things get tied together. And the whole point about conflict is that there's like two parts of you because depending on what your internal emotional state is, that'll be which direction you move on a given day. Is that what are you hearing? So, yeah. So you're saying streaming and career that that and then my emotional feeling what I'm feeling should be it's like separated like independent. It shouldn't be involved. So I think right now, one is actually dictating quite a bit of the other. And I think that as you have started to set boundaries between those two things, the better you've been doing. So I think it sounds like you're doing better objectively. And you said you had a conversation with some school friends about things that are not like related to streaming and it felt liberating. So you can get that liberation without hurting your numbers. And the biggest problem that most streamers make is they think that these two things are tied. Since you've had to sacrifice so much to get here, you assume that since sacrifice has caused you to grow, you assume that it is sacrifice that will continue to grow. Whereas the big revelation that we've had, and I think this is what you would also agree with, because most streamers agree with this, is that when you're actually like not tired and exhausted and you feel pretty good about yourself, your streams are actually like higher energy, more enjoyable. And you actually do like better in the numbers that sacrificing and being tired all the time. Like there's that fear driver that if I stop doing this, then people will slip away. But that's the big paradox is that actually being well rested will bring more people in. But the problem is that that fear that if I take a break, like everyone will disappear. I don't and I'm not saying that, you know, if you take extended breaks and like consistency is important. So there's absolutely like a big part of like consistency is a huge part and taking breaks extended breaks is very damaging for streaming. And even if some people are able to successfully do it, those people are outliers. The majority of streamers need to stream consistently in order to keep their numbers or grow. That's absolutely true. Yeah. Anyway. So what I'm what I'm encouraging you to do is more than anything else, think a little bit about what satisfies you, what really satisfies you, that you can strive to grow and you can strive to be better and you can strive to do more ambitious things and grow your numbers. That's fantastic. Go for it, girl. But your happiness or value or sense of satisfaction does not have to be so tied up into that. Yeah. I mean, I think I should find more satisfaction from like something that is not related to streaming. I think I should like find satisfaction in some other stuff in order to be more healthy because number is such a very, very difficult to get satisfied from. Yeah. So I noticed that you're like very, very like I mean, this is what this is. The other challenge is that in order to become as successful a streamer as you are, you have to think this way. So this is the really weird thing about like if we look at success, grinding gets you to the like the top 10 percent. But then what happens is like 90 percent of people in the top 10 percent start to burn out and the people who go to the top one percent are the ones that develop some degree of like work life balance. Actually, that's not true. I want it to be true. But I think it's true enough. It can be true. Let me put it that way. But I know a lot of people who are at the top one percent who just never develop work life balance and they just sacrifice more and more and more and more and really burn out. But I know plenty of people there or I've worked with plenty of enough of those people to help them develop balance and they don't lose anything. I think you're already like on this journey, right? It sounds like you've developed a lot of balance and actually your like content is doing better as a result. So. Yeah. I think I mean, I've definitely developed healthier lifestyle from separating streaming and then having more like personal life. I think I've definitely. Developed healthier style of streaming because before it was definitely not healthy and then there were a lot of viewers who were just like very, very they just love to know everything. But I don't think I it's a lot less. And then I think a lot of people in my community respect that now. So I feel more comfortable. That's a really good point. So I think one thing, Jenny, this isn't true just of you. But so if you look at human relationships, what you give people is what they're going to want. So we see this a lot with like streamers and parasocial relationships. But this is true of like everyday relationships, too, that, you know, if you give people complete access to your life, that's what they're going to want. If you give them complete access to your life, that's what they're going to come to expect. And they'll start to get really, really upset if you ever try to take that away. But this is also true of like our everyday relationships where I know so many people who will allow others to violate their boundaries. Right. I'll let someone else because I'm afraid that they'll leave. Right. Because you don't want your viewers to leave. And in everyday life, we don't want our boyfriend to leave. We don't want our girlfriend to leave. We don't want our brothers or siblings or friends to leave. I will tolerate their bad behavior. And once I start tolerating their bad behavior, then they will expect me to tolerate it. And then I get stuck in this really, really interesting trap, which is if I ever tell them no, they start to leave. And this was the very thing that I was afraid of to begin with. And now all of my fears are coming true by setting boundaries. But the really tricky thing is that this is a problem of my own creation when I tolerated it in the first place. When I set a particular standard, then people become entitled to violating my boundaries. And the whole reason I let them do that in the first place is because I'm afraid of them leaving. And so it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, which is why people get stuck. But what I'm seeing from you is that you started to set some boundaries. It sounds like maybe some people got upset. But then the cool thing is that there's like plenty of people out there who will respect them anyway and show up. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, I'm like, I got so sick of those people who are just like, you know, trying to be like gaslighting me into like saying my personal like tell everything, everything about my personal life or else I'm like a bad person. Like there are definitely a lot of people like I'm like, OK, fuck that shit. I'm going to ban all these people. I don't need these people. So I was like, yeah, I don't care if I lose these people in the in the long run. Like not having these people is so much healthier. So, yeah, I definitely like made boundaries like that. Yeah, that's awesome. Anyway, we've been at it for a couple of hours. So anything that you want to ask or anything that you want to talk about before we kind of wrap up? I hope I didn't like I hope I wasn't too preachy with what I was sharing with you. No, I think it gave me more clear side of view of like why I'm so conflicted. And then like always like, you know, I'm complicated. But it definitely cleared up my perspective for sure, because I was more I was pretty confused. Like, but I should definitely try to find satisfaction in other stuff more. And then, you know, separate between like numbers and satisfaction, that kind of stuff, because I don't think I'll ever be able to get satisfaction from numbers itself. So, yeah, yeah, which is crazy because that's what you're chasing. Right. So like, and even your memory of like what which numbers what your numbers were at particular points is like is crazy. Like you remember so many details. Like, you know, it's interesting. So, yeah, I mean, I think that the other kind of basic problem that I see a lot of people run into is that when your emotional fulfillment comes from your career, then your emotional well-being depends on your career, and then you depend on your career, your life depends on your career. And so I think what you're saying is actually like a really simple and beautiful way of just like the more that you separate your career from the rest of your life, and the more you start to cultivate other dimensions of your life, you will get derive emotional satisfaction from that. And then you will no longer need your career to give you that emotional satisfaction because you're getting it elsewhere, which sounds like a very, very, very healthy step for anyone. So I love the way that you put that. I think it's great. Thank you. Definitely could clear it up. My perspective. Yeah, thank you so much. Any. You want to just tell us where we can find you before we. Oh, yeah. Twitch.tv slash Genie TTY. And currently I am in Croatia going along the coastline. Yeah, it sounded like you were I watched a little bit of your last stream. It looked pretty epic. Croatia is great. Anyway, yeah, so you're working your way down the coast. That's awesome. Well, enjoy that. And thank you so much for coming today. And it's going to be super late for you. It's like midnight or something. Yeah, yeah. So good night and rest up. Thank you. Take care. Thank you.