 Okay, trying to be honest with my therapist, but not so honest that I get involuntarily hospitalized. Okay, so we're going to talk a little bit about involuntary hospitalization. This is just going to be kind of educational, right? So first question, chat, is what is the goal of hospitalization? Y'all know? The goal of hospitalization is really for safety and stabilization. So I know this sounds kind of weird, but like 99% of patients who have come into my office and said, I have suicidal thoughts, I have not hospitalized. Okay, so involuntary hospitalization should be used in only like drastic cases where there's like an acutely elevated risk of safety. So I've worked with people who have been suicidal for like a year and they'll come to my office and they're like, I'm thinking about killing myself. And I still may not hospitalize them. In fact, I usually don't. So the main issue is whether there is an acute elevation, a temporary elevation of your risk that is very problematic in that moment. And if the answer to that question is yes, then we will consider involuntary hospitalization, or at least me personally. So that's also where I would think about voluntary hospitalization. So most of the people that I've worked with like will do a voluntary hospitalization, which is, well, I'll talk to them, right? And like our goal, so when I work with my patients, we have a shared goal. The shared goal is not to keep them living life that is miserable. The shared goal is to try to help people build a life that is worth living. So if I feel like they are so mentally ill to where they're like acutely at danger to themselves, then I may involuntary hospitalize them. But generally speaking, psychiatrists and therapists are not there to hospitalize you against their will. That's not what we're there for. We're there to try to help you. And just because you're suicidal doesn't actually mean that you belong in a hospital. Like at least, I mean, it depends on what kind of suicidality. So we'll go over that in a second. You know, really the question is, can you, is the risk to yourself so great that you need to be in a controlled environment for a temporary period of time? And so this is where, you know, when I work with people, like I think about the following factors. One is, is there a temporary elevation to the risk? Do you have means or access to kill yourself? Do you have a plan to kill yourself? So like some people, they're like, I just want to die. They don't really have any plan to do something. Whereas other people are, and if I ask them, like, you know, do you have a plan of what you would do? They'd be like, yeah, I jump off the Golden Gate Bridge. And I'm like, the Golden Gate Bridge is in San Francisco and you're in Boston. So would you buy a ticket and fly? And they're like, yeah, I haven't really thought it through. I'm like, great. So you probably don't need to be hospitalized in that situation. So the first thing to remember is that, you know, our goal is not to hospitalize you against your will. If you're suicidal doesn't mean that we're going to hospitalize you. It of course is a case by case basis. Different clinicians have different thresholds. I tend to be like a big believer in patient autonomy and sort of like, you know, so I think that it's my job to really, I mean, sometimes I'll involuntarily hospitalized people because I don't think that their mind is working properly. And so we'll do something called a capacity eval to see if their mind is actually functioning in a way that's processing information or they're too depressed to be able to process information. But just because you're suicidal doesn't mean that we're going to hospitalize you. In fact, like our goal is to help you not be hospitalized. Right. So when I think about my job as a psychiatrist, my job is to keep you out of the hospital if possible. Right. So if you think about it, that's the job of all doctors. Like if you go to a primary care physician and you've got like an infection, the goal of the doctor is to keep you from needing to go to the hospital. We don't want to get this to a point where you're septic. The infection is like flowing through your bloodstream and like, you know, it's affecting your entire body. The goal is to keep you out of the hospital. It's not about cost savings for the insurance company and things like that. That's not what I'm talking about. What I'm talking about is generally speaking, we want to keep people to a minimal level of illness. Right. So our goal and so this is where I'd strongly encourage you to talk to your provider if you're having suicidal thoughts, because it's their job to help you be safe. It's their job to help you like deal with those thoughts, hopefully, you know, so you no longer have them or they're like much more controlled or way easier to deal with because that's our job. But if you don't tell us because you're afraid of being hospitalized, like, yeah, you could be hospitalized. It's possible. But if you don't tell us, then like we can't help you with them. And the hospital is not really what we want to do. Like that's not our go to. It's like a last resort. That being said, you know, there are some providers who for medical legal reasons or, you know, personal thresholds may be have a lower threshold to hospitalized people. You know, I can't speak for everyone. But generally speaking, I think that, you know, if you have suicidal thoughts, like you should tell your provider and then your provider will sort of ask you certain questions. And there's the other thing I know it sounds shocking. But also, if your provider wants to hospitalize you, you got to really think about why they want to. Right. Because as trained professionals, we sort of know what the risks are. And so if you're like really high risk for suicidal, like an actual suicide attempt, and your provider is telling you to do that, maybe you should go. Right. Because like they kind of know what they're talking about. Our goal really is to help you stay alive and stay healthy. So, you know, don't hesitate to share your suicidal thoughts with your provider. This is also where, like we said, we think about acute elevations. So has something really drastic happened to you? Did you just get dumped? You know, do you have access to suicidal means? And that also is because if you look at it, 80% of suicide attempts were like actually the decision was made within two to five minutes. I think maybe 60% is made within 60 to 120 seconds of the attempt. So if you ask survivors of suicide attempts and you ask them, when did you actually decide that you were going to kill yourself? 60% of them, I think, say within one or two minutes. And 80% of them will say within five minutes of the attempt. So it's a very common myth that most people will plan out their suicide attempt over a long period of time. That's why we ask so much about access to stuff. So if you have a gun in the home, the problem is that if you have this idea and within 60 seconds you've got the gun, you may actually pull the trigger. So we try to control means. If you have to book a ticket to San Francisco, like for next Tuesday, the likelihood that that attempt will happen is statistically way lower according to the research, as I understand it anyway, based on my last reading of it. So that's why when the provider tells you, hey, I really want you to go to the hospital, they're not necessarily worried in that moment. What they're actually thinking, hopefully, is like, what is the likelihood that that little voice in your head actually takes control of you for like up to five minutes? And if the little voice that you fight against on a daily basis can take control of you in five minutes, what is the worst damage it can actually do to you? That is our threshold to hospitalize. Because when that risk gets too high, that's when we really think about hospitalizing. And even then, like what I'll do, I mean, I've had cases where people have had very high risk situations and it sort of becomes like an issue of trust where I'll explain this to them and say, I trust you now. I get that you're telling me that you're not actually going to do anything. I'm concerned that you could change your mind in the middle of the night. So let's get rid of the gun. So I'll talk to the person, they'll talk to their spouse or mom or whatever. I tell them what I need to be reassured is like, I need your mom to be with you and y'all need to get rid of the gun together. And the three of us are going to talk about it. And so if we can be assured that you don't have access anymore to make an impulsive decision, because most suicide attempts are actually impulsive decisions, then we can sort of like, you know, keep you safe. And if we can keep you safe on the outside, then, you know, we don't need to hospitalize you. The last thing that I know it's shocking, but hospitalization is not a magical cure for suicidality. So this is the other reason that I tend to be really careful about when to hospitalize people is because I really have to ask myself, what's going to change within one week? Now, if you just got dumped by your partner and you're like acutely suicidal, then like, absolutely in a week, you could process a lot. You could be in a different headspace. So by all means, like move towards hospitalization. So this is where the other thing that we talk a lot about in psychiatry is a chronically elevated risk of suicidality, which does not necessarily warrant hospitalization. Some people have a chronically elevated risk of suicidality, which means that they're sort of constantly like high risk to be suicidal. And even if it's scary, it doesn't necessarily mean that you need to be hospitalized because it's unclear like what will happen over the course of the 10 days that you're in the hospital. If it's not going to actually make an impact, we just personally, we just kind of ride out the risk, right? We talk about it. We oftentimes try to talk to a patient's family member, spouse or parents or something like that. We say, hey, here's the situation. What do you guys want to do? We can try hospitalization. We can not try hospitalization. Based on my assessment, this is a chronically elevated risk. Is it scary? Absolutely. But I don't know that hospitalizing you for five days is going to change something. Yeah. So Riyadh is saying my first time calling the suicide hotline was last Thursday. Good that you called and don't hesitate to call again and like go to the emergency room if you're feeling like you're in a bad spot. So this is the thing is like remember hospitalization is sort of like it's like it's it's basically the alt for the psychiatry profession, right? Like we don't spam your alt. You can't spam your alt. Doesn't do any. I mean, I guess theoretically it would be good to spam your alt. But like that's not a bad analogy, I suppose. So it's you know, it's like this thing that's on a cooldown for in order for it to be effective. You know, but I guess it's in games if you could spam your alt, you would. But that's not how we work in psychiatry. So I need a different analogy. It's like it's like a cooldown that like, you know, it's like blood magic, let's say, like where you like lose a portion of your HP to like cast a powerful spell, but you can't spam that shit. So generally speaking, I try not to spam hospitalization and use it only when necessary. Yeah, it's a lay on hands. Yeah. So shrapnel sacrifice. That's what constitutes a suicide attempt providers ask me about my past attempts. I've been told that having the means and almost doing it doesn't count as an attempt. I don't know. So this is where like providers are going to be different. You know, some people will say it counts as an attempt. Some people will say it won't count as an attempt. I think about so what I do is I do a risk formulation. So it's not so much about you know, what is or isn't. It's not binary. It's like a risk assessment that's on a scale. So is this person low risk, medium risk, high risk, chronically elevated risk, acutely elevated risk? Like there's a lot of dimensions to assessing risk, right? And this is where we talk about means, history, current mindset, circumstances, current stressors, all those kinds of things kind of factor in. DazzleAlt, actually DazzleAlt is a great example of what a hospitalization is. That's beautiful Dean77944. That's actually the best gaming analogy I can think of. So if you guys play Dota, you know this, but if you don't, there's a hero named Dazzle who has an ability called, it's not his alt, but it's it's shallow grave is what I was thinking. Where shallow grave like it doesn't heal you, but it prevents you from dying for a temporary period of time. And so when you like shallow grave someone like you can keep them alive for like, you know, a certain period of time, but like they're not actually going to be healed. So as soon as shallow grave ends, if they take, you know, any damage, they could still die. So what I think about a hospitalization is sort of like a shallow grave. So it's like a temporary measure that keeps you alive. But in my experience, hospitalization can sometimes fix things, but it's really about like healing you back to full. That's the important part. Axe Chalk Medical, I knew Axe, I knew Calling Blade was going to come up. I knew it. I don't know what the, I don't know. That's where the analogy falls apart. Axe with a blink. Axe is on your team chat.