 Hey friends, Dr. K here. A lot of people who watch our content are looking to find their dharma or life purpose. It's a real challenge because a lot of times mental health problems like depression and anxiety are actually symptoms of lacking a good meaning or a good purpose in life. This is something that people work on a lot in group coaching to find their dharma or to find their life purpose. If you're interested in that, we still have spots open. It's $24 a session and sign up with the link in the description below. Hi Dr. K, I'm a university student and I'm doing well. Good for you. I wrote an academic textbook, wow, published scientific papers, presented in symposiums, doing well in my studies, et cetera. But I recently got into an MBA and started focusing on other things that are more into the MBA studies and stuff and I don't think I enjoy this. I have some amazing mentors in my department as well. They know me well and they have helped me much. I'm always doing my best to make them proud and not just them, of course, my family as well. I do my best and work hard and that pride they have for me brings me happiness, I'd say. By the way, none of them is strict or anything like that. They're all super chill. Thanks for including that detail. Someone's been paying attention to how we would interpret that earlier sentence. So they've, see, this is fantastic. So they're starting to understand like, oh, maybe your parents are hard on you. But I believe that recently I've been doing some things that don't make me happy at all and increase my suffering, making me want to just stop and give up. One of these things is the MBA, which I dislike greatly. Instead, I'd like to do other stuff with the knowledge that I have, like start something online to help people and add value to them. I'm just doing all these things to make people proud, try to show them that I like this, do my best for them, but not for me. I'm not sure if this is the main problem, if there's something behind that or how I should think this through. And of course, I don't feel like talking to my mentors about this. I just don't want them to think that I'm not good enough for their mentoring. It's just that it's a bit confusing in my mind, even while writing this. To be honest, I'm not sure if you'll answer or even see this, but I guess I can take my chances by posting this here. Good job in taking a chance. And it's just that I'm trying to find answers on what I should do next. Thanks for your time, lots of respect for what you do and for your community, great. PS, sorry for the long message. Okay, so this is a very good, great question, okay? So let's kind of go through some of the components. So sometimes we're like productive, right? Like, so we're good. So this person published an academic textbook, was like presenting at symposiums, seems like they were having fun. And then they ended up like getting an MBA or getting into an MBA program. And so they find themselves in the MBA program and they're like, I'm not really enjoying this very much. Not quite sure what to do. I have a lot of mentors, my family supports me. I enjoy making them proud, but sometimes I wanna give up. I'm kind of confused about what I wanna do. So I guess this is a common question of like, sometimes like we'll do well in undergrad and we're like really doing a good job and we're happy with ourselves, we're making people happy. And then we will enter graduate school and things seem a little bit different there. And so what's going on there? Sometimes we feel like dropping out of graduate school, should we or should we not? It's a great question. So let's kind of unpack things one step at a time. So the first thing is that there are a couple of ways to look at it. The first is that, what is it that you dislike? So MBA is Masters in Business Administration. So the first question is like, but I believe that recently I've been doing some things that don't make me happy at all and increase my suffering. So then the question is like, what is that? So what is it that you dislike about your program and things that are making you unhappy? So I think that that's an important question to ask. This person also has like some confusing feelings. Like they say, I'm not sure if this is the main problem or if there's something behind that. And of course, I don't feel like talking to my mentors about this. I just don't want them to think that I'm not good enough for their mentoring. And the person even says that they're not even like people like that, they wouldn't judge me that way, but I feel that way. So I think there are a couple of different things to dig into. First is, why you don't wanna talk to your mentors? Like, what is that feeling that's keeping you from reaching out to them? Second thing is like, what is it that you dislike about getting the MBA? It sounds like you were having fun earlier and you're not having fun now. And as far as what to, so I think some amount of self-reflection and exploration is definitely a good idea. You can certainly talk to your mentors. You can certainly talk to your family members. You can also try talking to a coach or therapist, all that good stuff. But I think that there are a couple of important things to consider here. The first is that, how much of you making people proud drives what you do? And the second thing is, even if it is a big driver, that's okay. If you don't enjoy being in the MBA program, if it's not fun for you, I'd say the other thing, so this is where things change a little bit for like high potential folks. So I'm gonna pull a little bit from like other dimensions of stuff here, okay? So generally speaking at Healthy Game, where we talk about, you know, trying to find fulfillment and being productive and being happy, oddly enough for this person, we're not gonna talk about that. I'd say if you're suffering, okay. So this is where what you need to really think about doing is reconceptualizing the MBA. Like why did you get it in the first place? Was it to make people happy? Was it because it was a good idea? Because this person says that they wanna like help people and they wanna make the world a better place. So then the other way to view your situation is like not how to find happiness, forget about happiness for a second. I know it sounds weird. But think about what your goals are, what you wanna be in the world, and whether an MBA will help you with that. And even if you dislike it, like do you need to do it? So when we talk with our hypos, it's kind of bizarre because like what we really do is change the frame a little bit. And this is where like there are times in my life where I didn't enjoy being on 24 hour calls, but this is where dharma comes in. Because remember that dharma is what allows you to sacrifice happiness and tolerate suffering for like instill fine peace. So what I would say to this person is are the skills that you're like developing in the MBA, are those going to be important things for you to accomplish what you want to in life? And if the answer to that question is yes, like maybe you need to stay in it even if you're suffering. Right, like this is where you need to take a step back and really think a little bit about what you wanna accomplish. Do you wanna drop out and just like start to help random people? Like you can try to do that. I mean, it's not, you know, that's one option. But it sounds like you've done a lot of like academic work and you're trying to expand, you know, your skillset and you may not enjoy it. So it's not so much about enjoyment. For a lot of hypos, it's not about enjoyment. It's about worth, value. Is it worth it for you to spend, generally speaking, MBA programs or two years? Is it worth it for you to suffer for two years, be in this scenario, you know, for the sake of acquiring particular skills to equip you for the next phase down the road? That's what I really encourage this person to do, right? So understand a little bit about why you got the MBA in the first place. Understand a little bit about what you dislike about it. Understand why you're reluctant to talk to your mentors. I'd say definitely overcome that and also talk to your mentors. Because as someone who, you know, has mentored medical students and psychology students and stuff like that, is very common for people in graduate school to feel like they really don't wanna be there anymore. And that's where like one of the most important things you can do if you're in graduate school and you don't like being there is reaching out for support and seeing if there are people who can be like, hey man, I felt the same way. You'd be surprised what your mentors may say. You know, it's kind of like, it's tricky. So reach out to them and then ultimately ask yourself, is it worth it, right? Why did you get into this? And even if it sucks while you're doing it, is it worth it? I mean, no one enjoys being on 24 hour calls and like I still remember, you know, I used to spend like weekends, like moonlighting, at a hospital because we were starting Healthy Gamer and we needed a little bit of extra money. And, you know, I'd like kids to support and my wife was getting an MBA and like, so it was like, okay, so this is like, it sucks to spend, you know, I'd work one week and then I'd like, spend the weekend working a 48 hour shift at a hospital. And then like, I'd get like a half day Sunday to kind of rest and then my kids haven't seen me. So I get home after 48 hours in the hospital, I'm feeding them breakfast and stuff. And like, then like you sleep for a little while and then Monday morning rolls around and it's like another week of work, gg weekend. And the question is, is it worth it? Right, like that's the big question. So if you guys are struggling with something, if something is causing you suffering, you have to ask yourself like, is this a sacrifice that is worth it for me to make? And if the answer is yes, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then try to go chase after happiness. And then like, if you're struggling with something, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice. And if the answer is no, then like by all means make the sacrifice.