 Hello. Hello. Sorry, I'm a little nervous. Yep. You and everyone else. So how do you deal with unironically being dead inside due to a long time of suppressing emotions? So how do you manage having suppressed emotions for a very long time? Yeah, and I feel kind of dead inside. I don't even feel alive. I can't even feel any emotions. Do you feel any emotions? Like, let's say I'm playing a game and sometimes I can get frustrated and things like that. But not like... I don't know. I don't know how to explain it. I just... I don't know. Take your time. I can feel like the edge of an emotion, if that makes sense. Like, I can't feel like hate or love or like happy or maybe sometimes sadness, but it's like... It's not like... Sorry. Yeah, no. I think you're doing great. And what am I calling you, friend? You can call me RKM or my name is Ravid, if you can pronounce that. Sure. So Ravid, I think... So what I'm hearing you say is that you kind of feel the edge of emotion, but you don't really feel emotions. Exactly, yeah. Okay. So I think you did a very good job of explaining. What do you think? I don't think so. Okay. Fair enough. So I understood what you were trying to say, right? Yeah. Okay. Anyway, so Ravid, how long have you felt dead inside? Like, I was depressed when I was like 13 or 14, around that age. And probably ever since that. And how old are you now? I'm 19, turning 20. Have you had treatment for depression? No. Okay. Would you say that between like 13 and now, you've had... you felt about the same level of dead inside? Or there are periods of time where you feel like better for a little while and then you go back to feeling dead inside? Probably that I feel better sometimes. Okay. And can you help me understand a little bit about why you haven't gotten treatment for depression? Well, I went to a psychologist once and they didn't really understand me. So they just said like, you don't have depression, like go home or something. I don't know. So did they offer to see you again or they said, I'm not going to see you because you don't need to be here? It was kind of like an appointment to assess if I have depression or not. And the person didn't think I had it. So I was kind of under that. And how long ago did you see this person? It was when I was like 15. Okay. So here's my first thought, Rabid. Okay. So you may have depression and if you have depression, there are treatments for depression. And I think it's worth seeing someone again. Right? Because the story... Well, I don't think I have depression actually. What do you think you have? I don't know what I have. I don't feel anything. Sure. So I think that's fair. You may have depression, you may not have depression. You may think you don't have depression. I completely agree. I don't know if you have depression or you don't have depression. What I'm saying is that when we think about fixing a problem like this, there's a chance you have depression. And so the right thing to do is to... at least we need to know whether you do or you don't. Right? Does that make sense? Yeah. So I'm not saying that this is the end of my recommendation, but I think a useful piece of this puzzle is going to be getting evaluated by a mental health professional. And the story that when you were 15 and the story when you're 19 are different stories. Does that make sense? Like, if you're a 15 year old and you go see a psychologist once and they ask you about your feelings and stuff, like at 15, you don't even know what you feel. And you've been feeling this way maybe for about a year. Right? But you don't even know how to articulate. Like, you don't know how to say what you feel when you're 15 years old. That's a very different story from when I turned 13 or 14, I started feeling depressed and I haven't really felt emotions for the last six years. It's a completely different story. Yeah. And so just because someone met you once and didn't think you were depressed when you were 15 doesn't mean that that person was correct. Or even if they were correct in that day, the story back then and the story now is like very different. Does that make sense? Yeah, I get that. Right. So that's a really important, like clinical piece to understand is that if you guys have been evaluated for something at some random time in the past, and you guys like got even like it's not even it may have been possible that someone died because of that. And now you don't have depression like it there are all kinds of mistakes that can be made in the diagnostic process and Robert I think you should get an evaluation. I'm not going to end there. I'm going to talk to you about I think the more the answer that you're looking for. But I think this is the kind of thing where like I would feel stupid if I like we just talked about feelings and meditation and things like that. And you actually like had clinical depression and like you just didn't get treatment for it because that would be like that would be dumb. Does that make sense? Yep. Like we're going to do the Dr. K like understand yourself and like learn to feel your emotions. We're going to do all that. I'm going to give you all that. But like at the end of the day, it's important to be like very like careful about what you're doing. And treat yourself with the respect that you deserve, which is giving yourself every opportunity to like get better and overcome this problem. And one of those one of those instruments or one of those tools you can use is a clinical evaluation for some kind of depression. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay, on to the Dr. K stuff. Okay, so it sounds to me like you're alexithymic. Have you heard us talk? Okay. So what's your understanding of how we approach alexithymia? I don't know how you approach it, but I know what it is. You do know what it is? Yes. And you know what it is? Yes. And what's your understanding of what alexithymia is? You can't really explain how you feel. Yep. Yeah. So I would describe alexithymia is like being unable to feel like understand or feel emotions. So it's like you can't describe how you feel. It's sort of like you're colorblind to emotions. And so alexithymia, like, do you play a lot of video games, Robin? Yeah, for sure. How many hours a day would you say you play? Well, maybe five. Okay. And how do you spend the rest of your day? YouTube, Twitch, Dr. K. YouTube, Twitch, Dr. K. Wasting time. Yeah. So I think this is the kind of thing where like you literally like if you play games and are like consuming YouTube, you know, for most of your day, those things are going to suppress your emotional circuitry in your brain. So there are these things called fMRI studies. So F stands for functional magnetic resonance imaging, which is a study that looks at blood flow to the brain. And what we discover from fMRI studies is that when you play video games and do this kind of mindless stuff like watch YouTube and things like that, what they do is they actually reduce the blood flow to the parts of your brain that experience emotion. And so you're kind of like you activate this like dopamine circuitry and shut down your emotional circuitry, which is why games feel so good and that we use them as a coping mechanism. Anything that we use as a coping mechanism reduces our negative like our ability to experience negative emotions. So like earlier today, I had something stressful happen and like I pulled up Valheim for like 15 or 20 minutes and it made me feel better because like you kind of forget and then like all those negative emotions like go away for a little bit. And so I think this is where we've got to really approach this kind of in from a couple of different angles. One is that as long as you're basically like playing games at this rate, it's going to be difficult for you to feel emotions because you're going to be shutting off. You're going to be reducing blood flow to the part of your brain that like can experience emotion. And so, you know, this is where we've got to think a little bit about how you can do other stuff. So the next thing is that that any questions about that? I mean, that's kind of complicated, but I was going to lay out two or three other things. I want to add that like I think I also use like orgasm to do the same thing. Yep. Yeah. So people do that. Right. So if you if you look at people like we have we've had a couple of porn addiction streams, which you should check out on on YouTube. But like so so orgasm and like pornography and things like that are also other ways to like suppress emotions. And so, you know, Ravid, you've got a couple of other options going forward. The first is that if you want to get in touch with your emotions, like you have to cut back on some of these things. If you can't cut back on those, that's OK. There are other things you can do. So the next is that like you can intentionally activate that emotional circuitry. So this is what things like therapy or we do this in coaching to where like our coaches work a lot with people with alexithymia, because like your coaches and what they're going to tell you is that like you can access your emotions through your body, too. So especially for men who are alexithymic, I would say that even if you can't feel the emotion, you may feel stuff like in your body. Like, does that make sense to you? Yes. Yes. What do you feel in your body? Right now? Like. That could be an emotion. I have to think. Let me ask you this. What do you feel in your body when you go to bed at night? Warm. What? Warm. Warm. OK. Do you feel safe? Yes, relaxed. OK, so you do feel relaxed. Like, how do you feel when you wake up in the morning? Tired. I don't know. I can't really put myself in that. So this is where like, you know, when you feel the edge of an emotion, because you say you feel the edge of them, right? When you feel that edge of emotion, do you notice that you feel particular things in your body at the same time? I don't really notice it. OK, so that's something that you've got to pay attention to. So like the next time that you feel at the edge of an emotion, I want you to pay attention to your body and see if something is different in your body. You may feel something like in your stomach. You may feel something in your throat. You may feel something in your chest. You may feel like tension in your back. And that's going to be your like avenue into the emotion. Yeah. That's something you can kind of do on your own. But this is also something that, like, if you work, you know, with a trained professional, it can help. So I think the second thing, a couple of other things about alexithymia is that like, you know, when you do like coaching and therapy, like what's going to happen is that they're going to be asking questions that are going to be bringing you into the room. And they're going to be bringing the emotion up. And so like during those times, like the blood flow to your emotional centers of the brain is going to be higher. And as you wake those parts up, as you learn how to feel those emotions, then it's going to be like you're going to start to get the whole range of them. And so like I sort of experienced this when I had kids because my emotional circuitry like got more active. And so then what happened is I started like crying and stuff like all the time. Like I didn't used to cry, but now I like cry all the time on stream. And so what I found is that I could feel love more intensely and I could also feel like sadness more intensely. And I'm not recommending that you go out and have a child to fix this problem. But, you know, like my point is that essentially, like if we look at our alexithymia, what happens is if we turn up the volume on our emotions, we turn up the volume on all of our emotions. And so then the next question is what are the emotions that you're trying to avoid? Yeah. What do you think? Um, loneliness. But that's not emotion. But sure it is. It is? Sure. Well, well, that I guess. Right. So like this is where so now what's happening, Rabid, is that you're feeling lonely and then you do certain things to push the loneliness away. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Right. And so as long as that cycle is going on, you're not going to feel much because you're actually trying to not feel. Yeah, but I'm kind of like addicted. So I can't stop. You're damn right. You're addicted. So how do you get on addicted? Right. So that's where like you've got to start by facing that loneliness because as long as you're afraid, as long as the loneliness controls you, and as long as you can't feel lonely, you're going to be addicted to this stuff. And the more that because think about this, why are you addicted to it? It's because you can't sit with being lonely. Like it hurts so much to be lonely. You're like, I can't feel that. I'm not going to do it. And as long as you can't sit with the loneliness, then you're going to keep doing the thing because that's the way that you make the loneliness go away. So, of course, you're addicted, whether it's orgasms, masturbation, video games, Netflix, YouTube, whatever. It's all to run away from the loneliness. And if you want all of that stuff to come crashing down, you have to sit with the loneliness. Learn to be with the loneliness. If you can do that, then you don't need to play video games five hours a day. I also want to add like, I'm trying to become like a pro player, so it's hard to stop gaming because of that. OK, I mean, I think that if you want to be a successful pro player, you're going to have to deal with the loneliness. How do I deal with the loneliness? Go see a therapist or you could do coaching, too, but I'd really recommend therapy and a clinical evaluation. OK, that's a tricky thing. What country are you in? I thought it was free for you guys. I think so. I would definitely check into that. You think it's not true or? What do you mean tricking? I would I would investigate whether you actually have to pay for it or if there's some way you can get it for free. All right, I will. And there are usually like even people who will in any country. Oh, I don't know about any country, but generally speaking, in North America and in Europe, there are organizations that will offer therapy for free. So you just have to find one of those organizations. I'm not too sure. But I think that there are like organizations you can check out Rise Above the Disorder, which is a good organization. I think it's based in the United States. I don't know if they do things in Europe, but I thought I thought Sweden had socialized medicine. Maybe they do. I'm not. I'm not saying I'm just saying what I think. Yeah, so I would investigate that because I think the problem that you're going to face in the Swedish health care system is that you're going to have to wait a long time to find a therapist. But I think it should be free for you. Also, I think you mentioned like when you meditate and you get like a no mind state, that's when the emotion emotions like come up. Yeah, because you're not supposed to. But I haven't really been successful in getting there. OK, so that's that's perfectly fine. So I would continue practicing meditation, and this is where you may be able to find like a local group that you can join to like, you know, help you meditate on a regular basis. And and, you know, if you haven't entered, if you haven't entered a no mind state, that's totally fine.