 Which by definition means that instead of having people who excel at their jobs, we end up with a whole company where everyone is mediocre. Let's take a look at some ADHD TikToks on burnout. Alright, so this is great for a number of reasons. So first, let's understand how accurate this is. So I think this can be very accurate. So in my experience, there are two kinds of companies. Some companies will do this, where they'll sort of figure out that someone is in a particular role, and it's more trouble than it's worth to move that person out of a role and then find a replacement. So let's just think about this. Let's say that there's a managerial position that opens up at your company, and you want to get promoted. So right now they have to fill and train one role, right? Because even if you get promoted, you're going to have new responsibilities. There's going to be an onboarding process. There may be some other dynamics at play. So like, let's say you've got five different colleagues, and you get promoted and now they're reporting into you, that can create different kinds of trouble. So if they promote you, not only do they have to onboard and do that kind of stuff, but they also have to potentially fill your role that is now vacated. So now they have to onboard two people. So there are kind of two transitions. So sometimes companies kind of think like this, and they'll kind of do this sort of stuff. The other thing is that sometimes companies do want to give people opportunities to do extra unpaid stuff. And that's one of the ways in which companies give people opportunities to distinguish themselves. And that's where I'd say like, we've got to be a little bit careful here, because there are two kinds of companies that I've seen. One is like, okay, this is actually an opportunity for you to distinguish yourself. And here's the key thing. If you do a good job at distinguishing yourself, what is the outcome? Because for some places that actually results in, hey, we really noticed that you went above and beyond. So you are actually like, that's an advantage for promotions, raises, new projects, etc. Moving over to this other team. There are actually advantages to going above and beyond. The challenge is that there are some companies that expect people to go above and beyond for no additional stuff, even longitudinally and over time. And they expect everyone to do extra unpaid stuff. And that's just kind of like how it is. The other thing to keep in mind, which I think we kind of got to say, is that I think a lot of TikToks like this, they resonate with a lot of people, but I think there are other perspectives to consider here. The first is that sometimes if you're, let's just talk about outside hires. So I'm going to just tunnel down into this. So if there's a managerial spot that opens up and you work at a particular company, you may think, okay, like they should promote from within and like I'm a good candidate. So this is where sometimes like, unfortunately, like promoting from within is not actually the best option. So I'll give you all just a simple example. So I've worked with real estate developers, for example, that have real estate agents that are like really good at sales. And a managerial position opens up. And so people may think like, okay, like, so I should be first in line to be promoted because I do a really, really good job at sales. The challenge though, is that promoting people within a company actually oftentimes changes their responsibilities. And just because someone did really good at their current job doesn't mean that they'll actually adapt well to the responsibilities of the promotion. So if you're good at sales, like you may not be as good at managing as you are at sales. And you can look at someone like Michael Scott is a prime example of that, right? That's fictitious, but it's based in reality. There's another really interesting aspect here called the Peter Principle, which is sort of tongue in cheek. I don't know how data-based it is, but it's this idea that we promote people to the level of their incompetence. And I know that sounds kind of weird, but what that sort of presumes is that most people at companies are not ideally suited for the job that they have. And here's how the Peter Principle works. Let's say I'm really great at sales. I excel, I do really fantastic. I distinguish myself, I get promoted to a manager. If I excel at being a manager, what happens? I get promoted to let's say VP or C-suite or something like that. But if I do a mediocre job as a manager, what actually happens is I never get promoted and I just kind of stagnate there. Which means that what we're selecting for is the people who do really, really good at job A actually get promoted out of it until they start doing mediocre. And once they start doing mediocre, they sort of stay there because they're not able to distinguish themselves, which by definition means that instead of having people who excel at their jobs, we end up with a whole company where everyone is mediocre. So it's a really interesting principle and something to kind of think about when you're sort of considering promotion. One thing that I would highly, highly recommend is that if you're interested in getting internally promoted, you really think a little bit about how that job skill sets may be different from your own and make a strong case not on the work that you've done, but why you would be a good fit for that position. And so it's a good take though. I think sometimes unfortunately this is absolutely the case where they'll just sort of give you a pro forma interview to kind of like keep you there. I have absolutely seen predatory companies like that. Only one cup. I don't know why it came out like that. What's up? Quiet quitting? I have heard. Yeah. Basically the idea that people are burnt out so they're not actually quitting their jobs, but they're quitting going above and beyond so they're not letting their job take over their life. What do I think? I don't love the quiet part, but I get it. What employee is going to tell their boss, I'm too stressed, I need help finding balance? Not enough. So they either stay stressed or they actually quit, or they take steps to decide to do it themselves and quiet quit. Do I think our people are? I don't know, but a good way would be to bring it up. Take out the quiet part. I bet a ton of executives are having this same conversation, but not raising it to employees. What if you were to ask employees, what do you think about quiet quitting? Many might be shocked that you're bringing it up at all. But managers have to be open to finding ways to have conversations about productivity, having their own lives. I'm happy to write out what they can say. This is not a wing it topic. Hey, Luke. So that's actually really fantastic. I love this person's take on it because they're talking about actually engaging in conversation. So here's the problem that we've created with the term quiet quitting. So do employers want their employees to quiet quit? Right? Like, if you think about it, that sounds like a fireable offense. And so even with the phrase quiet quitting, what you've done is make it hard to actually engage in a conversation. Because it's like, hey, like who here is quiet quitting? Like what employee is going to raise their hand when they're like, yeah, I'm quiet quitting. And what does quiet quitting mean? It just means not going above and beyond. It means just doing your job, which by the way is also really bizarre because why on earth are we calling doing your job quitting? Since when did doing your actual job become quitting? Like what the hell is going on here? This whole phrase is like so problematic. And we've started to call, okay, yeah, these guys are quitters. What do you mean quitters? How are they quitting? Well, they're just doing their job. It's like, what the hell? That's not quitting. That's doing your job. The whole phrase is so misdirected, misunderstood. And I don't know how to say this. It's like, it's damning. So you can't have a conversation about it, which is what I think this person is kind of alluding to, is that people need to learn how to have conversations about it. The other thing to consider about quiet quitting is why are people quiet quitting? This is important. I don't think it's always because of burnout. So burnout is on the rise and people not going above and beyond is on the rise. Does that mean that the two are related? They can be, but here's the biggest reason that I see for quiet quitting. So when you go above and beyond, what do you get in return? If you don't get promoted, if you don't get a raise, if you don't get recognition, why would you continue going above and beyond? It's not burnout. It's just Pavlovian. So when someone puts in extra effort, if that effort is recognized, that's ideal. And if that effort isn't recognized, then people are going to stop doing it. Now, there's an interesting thing that we found in common. There can be a cognitive bias at play here where everyone thinks they're doing extra, whereas sometimes what they're doing is not really extra. It can actually be part of their job. This is the other thing that we see so often in career coaching, is that people are doing extra that the company doesn't value or people don't really care about. And in that case, I think it's totally fine to not invest that effort. We'll advocate for people to think about what the company actually cares about and invest extra in a way that the company will appreciate as opposed to just investing extra. But I think this is a really, really important point to think about. And I think the whole phrase is so damning that it's very hard to talk about. And I don't know when doing your job, how we started calling doing your job quitting. It's like, I can see how this phrase has caught on so much because I think there's a group of managers out there who fundamentally believe their employees are lazy. And if you're a manager who fundamentally believes your employees lazy, having them do their job is quitting in your eyes. And somewhere along the way, what's also happened is that going above and beyond has become the standard, right? Where it's like, oh, everyone, like we want go-getters, we want people to be able to go above and beyond. I think going above and beyond, honestly, I think it's great. Like, I don't, I got to be honest with you all. So when I was in med school, I tried to go above and beyond. When I was in residency, I tried to go above and beyond here at HG. I tried to go above and beyond. I still try to go above and beyond. I think it's good. It's just you need to have a relationship where people recognize that and you go above and beyond in a way that is understood and hopefully appreciated. Three signs your cortisol levels are high, part two. Hi, my name is Christine Cohen. I'm a mental health dietician who helps stress professionals overcome burnout naturally in their 30s. The first one is any level of anxiety. So that is chronic anxiety that any level of anxiety is a sign of high cortisol you experience on the mild level, all the way up to anxiety and panic attacks. Second is finding yourself feeling really frustrated, really irritated often all the way up to exploding rage. This is a sign that your cortisol levels are high. And the third is intense cravings for carbs, sugar, salty, and even alcohol throughout the day, but definitely later in the day and after dinner. If you experience these symptoms often, it's a sign that you're living in fight or flight mode and your cortisol levels are imbalanced. To learn more about why this is happening and how to naturally balance yourself back out, go download my free guide and learn more. So I'm not sure. So this person is a dietician, so they may know more about this than I do. But some of the some stuff about this makes me kind of concerned. So the first is that I'm not quite sure if they're talking about cortisol or they're talking about burnout or if they assume that the two are automatically linked. So I know this sounds kind of weird and this person may know more about this than I do. But I'm not sure that hypercortisol and burnout are actually correlated. It makes sense that they are because burnout is sort of a high stress state. You have a high level of cortisol. And there's a lot of stuff here that I think is scientifically like, it sounds like they really know what they're talking about in terms of craving of carbohydrates and stuff. That can be consistent with cortisol. But when they say any level of anxiety, that kind of confuses me because I think like mild anxiety and feeling anxiety is not a sign of hypercholesterolemia or Addison's disease. I mean, it can be. Anxiety is one of the manifestations of high cortisol. But once again, I think this isn't so much about this person as it is about TikTok, which is like, I think some degree of anxiety is within the normal range of human experience. And so I'm just not sure when I watch stuff like this. I don't know if this person, you know, if this is, I'd like to think that this is a restriction of the platform because in 56 seconds, how can you accurately explain cortisol burnout anxiety and help people understand what's going on? Could it be a high cortisol level? Sure. Could it be a burnout level burnout? Sure. But some of this stuff, this is what kind of makes me a little bit hesitant about this kind of stuff is I don't know what exactly this person is referring to. I don't really know how scientific it is, but it does seem like they do this kind of work. And so they've had a lot of like good outcomes with their clients is what I'm assuming. And by the way, that can be completely valid too, because oftentimes what you see is that before you have scientific evidence of an intervention, you'll have people out there working with human beings who will develop a high level of confidence in the intervention that happens before scientific validation. A great example of that is meditation. So why do we have research studies on meditation? It's because a bunch of people like in the 60s learned how to meditate and they're like, wow, this is actually amazing and will help with anxiety and depression. And at that point, scientists would have said, you're full of BS. And so then what happened is they actually made studies about it. So it's not uncommon for people who are in a clinical role or this person seems like a dietician to actually make discoveries about what helps people prior to scientific evidence. So something to just keep in mind. So I'd say just take it with a grain of salt. Sounds like their heart is in the right place. They may know more about it than I do, but I'm a little bit skeptical of some of the generalizations that they make. I think one of the saddest parts of working with people who are experiencing burnout is that when you ask them like what they want, like I asked them what they wish they were including, it is such reasonable things. It's like, I want to have time to eat breakfast and lunch. I want to get off of work before 6 p.m. I want to have time on the weekends without feeling guilt for not catching up on work. I want to spend time with friends and family. I don't want to have trouble sleeping because I have so much anxiety. Like very reasonable human things. Burnout is not just stress in the workplace. It's what that stress in the workplace costs you. It's just very unfair because burnout is like that the meeting point of industry and industry's bottom line and just people like people trying to do their best, especially like high achievers and people pleasers who want to make those companies happy not realizing that no amount of work from them would be enough. So this is really interesting. So I think that it highlights something and I'm curious kind of what y'all think about this, but if burnout is the intersection of people pleasers and companies, where do you think the fault lies? Right? Like let's just think about that for a second. And let's take a quick look at the next one. This one I think we're gonna go. So I think this really highlights kind of a good point. So when I'm asking like, okay, who's at fault here? People are saying, some people are saying mostly companies and some people are saying both. Here's our experience with burnout and their science to kind of back this up. So I think the biggest problem with burnout that's going on right now is that companies are blaming employees and they're saying, oh, burnout is something that you need to handle. So we're gonna give you a free subscription to a mindfulness app so that you can meditate and be less burnt out. And employees are blaming companies and they're saying your work environment is so stressful. Like you're the reason that I'm burnt out and my company always asks for more, always asks for more, always asked for more and I'm a people pleaser. So here's the wild thing that we've discovered and this is based on science. So the first thing is let's start with the science. So burnout is the intersection of job plus personal. And if you all have seen like our interviews, like we did an interview with a developer who's burnt out at the last four companies that they've worked at. And what we tend to find is, oh, if someone's a people pleaser and like let's say your boss is like really nice boss and it's like, hey, we've got like something else that's kind of come in the pipeline, there's a possible deal, anyone interested in kind of taking it on. And then the people pleaser is like, yeah, me. And you're like, okay, cool. You want to take it on, go for it. And then a week later, a boss is like, hey, we've got something else coming on like anyone interested in taking it on. People pleaser is like, or the boss asks like, hey, do you have bandwidth for an additional project? People pleaser is like, I'm not allowed to say no. I'm afraid of what my boss will think when I say no. So I'm gonna say yes. Even though they don't have the bandwidth. And so from the boss's perspective, let's assume for a moment the boss is nice. He or she is a nice boss and they're actually genuinely asking, hey, are you like at capacity or do you have space for something else? You tell me, if you tell me you're at capacity, it's totally fine. Like, I'm not gonna think any less of you. I respect you as an employee. I respect your ability to manage your own work. You're a hard working, you're not a slacker. So I am trusting you to tell me where you are. I'm actually trusting and respecting you. But the people pleaser is like, I never want to say no to anything because that makes me feel bad on the inside. So this is the harsh discovery that we've made when we work with people who are burnt out. And we've worked with a lot of them is that a lot of it is internal. Half of it is internal, half of it is company. And what we do is we work with people to help them understand, okay, if you're a people pleaser, the solution is not for corporations. I mean, I guess they could be. We've done some consulting in that. It's a corporate companies to adapt to some human beings who are people pleasing. The real solution, and I say this as a clinician who's worked with tons of people pleasers, is if you're people pleasing in your job, you're also people pleasing in your personal relationships. You're also people pleasing in your friendships, parental relationships, family relationships, romantic relationships. And so if you're a people pleaser at the cost of yourself because you don't value yourself, like that's something that needs to be changed on you. There are absolutely toxic elements from the corporate world, don't get me wrong, who will take advantage of people pleasers. And I encourage you all to like watch the interviews and stuff because what we've really seen is that fixing burnout is addressing some things at the company level, but it's also addressing a lot of things at the individual level. And to be blunt, we see far, far, far better outcomes addressing things at the individual level than we do at addressing things at the company level. Because if we address things at an individual level, if we can take a people pleaser and have them stop being a people pleaser, they're going to do way better, way faster than trying to do a corporate training that gets managers to understand people pleasers. So the unit of change when we focus on the individual what we find is that the yield is a lot better. Right. So it's like, okay, like let's say that we've got someone who struggles to eat healthy. What we can do is we can absolutely go to a government FDA and we can say, hey, you all have to change advertising, you need to add this nutrition facts, you need to put warnings on food, you have to do this and this and this to warn people of the dangers, you have to make it hard for people to buy this stuff, we need to increase the taxes on sodas, we need to do all of this worldwide damage to make sure that we're doing the right thing. We need to do all of this worldwide stuff to help people who eat in an unhealthy way. I think all that stuff is fantastic. But if you are someone who struggles to eat healthy, I would encourage you, I don't think you can wait for all that to happen. That the people who end up eating healthy are the ones who make a personal change. Now, does that absolve everyone else of responsibility? No. What I'm talking about is efficacy, not fairness, not responsibility. What are we going to do about it? You have to work a little bit on your own. What we try to do is we help people, first of all, understand, are you a people pleaser? And then even role play, dialogue out, how do you have a conversation with your manager? Because if your manager is actually nice, the cool thing about this is that if your manager is nice, you can actually go to them and say, hey, I have a tendency to like people, please. Here's a sample dialogue that I would encourage. So these are the kinds of things that we'll talk people through. How do you talk to your manager about being a people pleaser? Real quick, if you go to your manager and you say, hey, I really enjoy working for you, I think you're a fantastic person, I like my job here. One of the things that I really struggle with is that anytime someone at this job asks for help, I have difficulty saying no, but I actually think that I get too much on my plate and it stresses me out. I want to help out. I want this company to succeed. I want to look good myself. I want to make you look good. I want the mission of the company. Let's say I work at a hospital, right? So I care about patients. And I want to help out my fellow nurses when something, there's like a shortfall in nursing. But what I'm noticing is that it's hard for me to say no, and I'm getting really, really stressed out and it's impacting my work. Can you help me with this? Can you help me set boundaries around a healthy level of work? And it's amazing when you go to your, you're not saying, hey, I'm lazy. Hey, y'all are taking advantage of me. Y'all are an evil corporation. You're like, hey, this is something that I really struggle with. Will you help me? And what's really awesome is like most managers will be like, absolutely. We'd love to help you. Okay, let's think about this. How can we set limits on how much you actually work? I'm going to talk to the charge nurse about this. Let's try to figure out like what's a good plan. Because most people are like good human beings. The problem is we're never taught how to approach these conversations. And we just are like, oh, like the hospital is predatory. Like it may be true, but I don't think that you're, I mean, sometimes you have a toxic boss, but generally speaking, like people want to help each other out, right? Because your boss may be a people pleaser too. Do you ever think about that? And if you come to them and you say, hey, I'm stressed out, your boss being a people pleaser is like, oh no, let me fix that for you. Right? Because if you're a people pleaser and you go the extra mile, what happens? You get promoted to being the boss. And did the people pleaserness go away? Of course not. Makes sense? Okay. Questions? So trash can raider is saying, I think you're overestimating people. Maybe. Hasn't been my experience. So I'm estimating people based on my experience. And what I've learned is that when you over, when you think, if you think I'm overestimating colleagues or people, what I've really found is that effective communication or ineffective communication will result in how people respond to you. So I can understand why you're like, oh, you're overestimating people because when I talk to people, it doesn't work like that. So that's where I challenge you a little bit. I'm not saying that you're wrong. Right? So my first job was like serving up ice cream and I've had other like kind of basic labor sort of jobs over the years. So I've done that kind of work, but I'm also now for the last like decade in a position that has a lot of professional respect. So my life is going to like, my experience is going to be different. I've worked with a ton of people though. And what I really found is that there's a right way to talk to people. And when you talk to people the right way, then it really helps or improves your chances. But I've absolutely heard my fair share of horror stories and situations where talking to your boss about how you're stressed out and you have this difficulty causes them to like hop on and say, okay, cool. Let's take advantage of that. I'm not saying y'all are wrong. I'm just saying it's, you have to be careful about assuming the world is a particular way and that effort or change or learning something new on your part is not going to change that. It's challenging. Okay. So Real Riker is asking, how do you manage your burnout when you might be expected to work even late to get stuff done? So that's a great question. So what I would say is where does that expectation come from? Where's the expectation that you have to work late? That's how you challenge it from the beginning. So if you have to work late, why is that? There could be all kinds of reasons that you have to work late. I've had to work late. So some of that is like learning curve. So is it temporary or is it that you have difficulty with something that most people in your job don't have difficulty with? So for example, I had a colleague who was dyslexic and so physicians take notes. And so we have to like take notes and we have to do like documentation. And that maybe for some of us, it would take an hour for this person, it would take an hour and a half. Sometimes things are just going to take longer for you. And that is that where the expectation comes from. Or is the default that, oh, like, this is a normal amount of work and people have to work 14 hours a day and that's just accepted. Some industries are like that, like banking. Working late is a part of the job. And how does banking make up for it? They compensate you with hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars per year. And it's just an expectation that like, hey, you're going to work your ass off and we're going to pay you a lot. You're going to burn out, you're going to stress. This is the trade. So it just depends. I would say, where is that expectation of you working late coming from? Prime is asking question, is part of burnout related to lack of community? Yes. So there are six scientific factors that contribute to burnout. And I think lack of community or isolation is absolutely one of them. All right. Shall we move on to... Great catching you at TwitchCon, by the way, Prime. But does it have to be that way in the banking industry? I personally don't think so, but many people high up in the banking industry disagree with me. There's something really interesting going on in the banking industry right now, which is that we're seeing a very, very subtle shift to... So the standard in the banking industry is that you work people to the bone and then turnover rates are really, really high. So what happens is like, you've got people, you're like, I want you to work 100 hours a week and a bunch of people are going to try. Some people are going to excel. And when they excel, you're going to promote them. You're going to give them a lot of money. But then what happens a lot is that person, the grass is going to be greener on the other side. So they're going to go somewhere else, because they're your golden child at your bank. So they go to some other bank and they're like, hey, I'm the golden child over here. What will you all give me? And then another bank says, okay, we'll give you like 50% more. Golden child comes back to your bank and is like, hey, these people are offering me 50% more. Can you all match it? And you're like, no, we can't match it. And then the person leaves. So what actually happens in banking is that there's a real retention problem for your best employees. There's also a retention problem for your not-best employees, because you've got a golden child who you're struggling to keep and maybe you pay them 50% more. And then you've got the other four people in their cohort who are not golden children who are getting paid less now, 66% of what the golden child is getting. And so they'll end up leaving too, because they don't think it's fair, because golden child is working 100 hours a week. They're working 100 hours a week. One person is getting paid 50% more, so they leave. So turnover is a huge, huge problem in banking. Everyone's moving around all the time. What we're starting to see is there's a small crop of people who really care about building a team and care about the humans. And what they've really discovered, which is crazy, is that if someone enjoys working for you, they'll actually turn down 50% more money to stay with you, because the toxicity isn't worth the money. And you may be thinking, that's crazy, 50% more money. But at some point, money has diminishing returns. For some people, it doesn't. And it's just the more, the better. It's a way to keep scoring life. So I'm starting to see this change in banking where some people actually genuinely care. They work less. They don't work people to the bone. You're allowed to have kids whenever you want. It's totally fine. We're going to support you. And that's worth so much.