 Let me just touch on a couple of things that Twitch chat talks about. So first of all, you know, I think that there is a correlation between men and alexithymia, although many women are alexithymic too. I think a lot of it has to do with video gaming. I think that men are conditioned to experience essentially one emotion. We're really only allowed to experience one emotion. And if we experience any other negative emotions, well, one negative emotion, if we experience other negative emotions, we tend to be shamed for it. And I'll let you guys kind of figure out what emotion it is that you think that men are allowed to experience. I think that I agree with Crimson that, you know, it is dumb that men are pressured not to experience an emotion. Absolutely, it's anger, right? And so the funny thing is, even if you think about like, you know, let's say the example of the person I'm working with who his fiance cheated on him, what do you think his initial emotional reaction was to finding out that his fiance was cheating on him? Absolutely, right? He comes into my office and he says, I'm so pissed off. And the more that you think about it, like that feels like a completely normal, like everyone can identify and relate to that, right? To feel pissed off. But underneath, he's feeling all kinds of other things, like will I ever be able to trust someone again? Is there like, there are also other things that he's feeling which it takes a while to like get to, which is, is there something about me which is like broken and busted? Is there something about me which makes it so that like, is there something that I'm doing wrong which caused her to cheat? Am I not good enough? Those are all the things that are underneath anger, but that's not what he feels. The first thing that he feels is pissed off. And so this is true of gamers as well, where like, you know, we, and now we kind of get to, we come full circle. So we come full circle and we kind of get to toxicity in gaming. So why is it that gamers are so toxic and there's so much toxicity in gaming? It's because the main emotion that most gamers let themselves feel is anger. Anger is a very reasonable emotion to have, but there are also a lot of other emotions that kind of swim beneath the surface.