 You gotta save them for oh dude. Okay. So this is actually I'm glad cuz I almost I almost posted in response to this Okay, so this person is actually brilliant because it is actually there's good scientific evidence that This is part of the problem. So every mental health professional I've ever talked to has been like you have a lot of self-awareness men and I'm like, yes I actually think that is part of the problem. Absolutely true. So this is can I can I just Harvard Andy for here for a second Yeah, that's the point. Okay. Okay. So we have this part of our brain called the default mode network Okay, and the default mode network is the part of our brain that gives us the capacity for self-awareness So if we look at like animals and humans the biggest difference between animals and humans most and animals and humans Anyway, is the is the default mode network? So like animals, you know Like let's say like you take a deer or something like a deer will go about its day and then it won't think about itself going about its day, but human beings have this capacity of self-reflection and so That's capacity for self-reflection is this thing called the default mode network so what I can do is, you know, look at my like look at the actions that I take and kind of Reflect on my sense of self within these actions Let me just think about how to explain that better so You know if I ask like if a deer looks around for food in ten places and doesn't find food The deer doesn't start to feel like an idiot because it hasn't been able to find food and it's like over ten But if we think about human beings if I you know, ask ten girls out and then they say no Like as a human being I start to think about myself in that way and then I say oh my god I'm such an idiot. So human beings have this this and if you really think about it It's actually like quite profound and it's an amazing capability that our brain has Where we can do like meta level thinking about ourselves as we move about in the world that is done by the default mode network So it's essentially our capacity for self-awareness Now the interesting thing is that once we have the default mode network we also evolutionarily speaking by ourselves the possibility of depression and What we find is that people who are depressed have overly active default mode networks, okay So let's think about this for a second. Okay, so like I asked ten girls last two girls out Default mode network is not active. It's just they said no. Okay, both of them said they had boyfriends. No big deal I'm not thinking about myself in that way. I asked ten girls out. They all say no now this default mode network activates And it's like hey man, like maybe you're ugly or something like that, right? It starts like thinking negative thoughts about you and it's sort of this meta level problem solving thing where it's like looking at you as a person And saying can we change something about ourselves to increase our overall chances of success? Okay so That's what the default mode network does now when someone gets depressed their default mode network is highly active Okay, and then what happens is when I asked two girls out But my default note mode network is highly active from depression Then I start thinking those meta thoughts about how I'm the problem in this big situation Except now the situation is tiny and when the default mode network is hyperactive even tiny little things that really shouldn't be my fault Become like my fault because this circuit in my brain that's like being self-reflective is always on So then you get to these weird thoughts that depressed people have like oh my family would be better off without me And it's just like such a weird thought but what you really see is that this is a situation where you know Their mind is viewing like a meta problem with themselves in things that are completely unrelated Oh like these people are gonna fire me because I'm a waste of space and like all the time You're thinking about yourself thinking about yourself thinking about yourself, which is literally your capacity for self-reflection Exactly like this guy is saying Okay, so it's like what he's saying he's like yes your self-awareness is part of the problem your minds being stuck at Always looking at yourself instead of taking a step back is actually correlated neuroscientifically with depression This person is a hundred percent correct. So other evidence kind of weird, right? So now we have these things like novel treatments for depression like ketamine So ketamine is an example of Don't recommend you use ketamine is a substance of abuse that can also be used in a licensed and prescribed way to treat depression And what ketamine is is it deep? It's like a dissociative agent, right? So what it does is it causes you to like separate from yourself. And so what ketamine does so ketamine is one of the quickest acting Treatments for depression. So if someone is in a depressive episode and they get administered ketamine they can improve within like hours Whereas most things like SSRIs or antidepressant medication will take weeks, right? So I really do not recommend that people use ketamine recreationally because when you use it as a treatment, there's a purity guarantee There's also an administration issue because it is a drug of abuse It's administered with like a nurse nearby because there can be dangerous side effects. So don't recreationally use ketamine Or don't even like, you know, get it prescribed like use it under the guidance of a physician But the key thing here is the neuroscience of it. Okay, so what does ketamine do in the brain? So what it does is shut off the default mode network So in that dissociation where I stopped getting stuck in myself It actually shuts off the default mode network And so some of these other substances which are you know, there are trials now for things like psilocybin and MDMA and stuff All of those like hallucinogen substances that cause people to have this like cosmic sense of connection It separates you from this kind of thinking Which is like instead of your high self-awareness being focused on you all the time Now suddenly like with these substances your mind is able to like pull back from that and you actually shut off the default mode network Okay So this is actually brilliant. It's a wonderful observation Okay, so the brain's default mode network people sometimes want references, right? So here's a good I guess this is written by Marcus E. Rachley Okay Two hours later So does that make sense chat, I don't know if I You're failing this class for sure I'm lost Okay, so basically this is what the paper says We normally have an intact sense of self Okay, this intact sense of self and our high awareness of ourselves We're always looking at ourselves like like an active default mode network means that we're not in the same place Default mode network means that when I'm at a party instead of paying attention to other people my mind is constantly occupied by thinking about myself Oh, I look stupid. I sound stupid People aren't talking to me People are talking to other you're the focus of your mind is on I you are the object of your attention Okay, like anxiety. Yes Then what happens so so when this person says like this person on on the reddits says You know, I actually think that self-awareness is the problem they're absolutely right because their self-awareness is a high level I mean is is their default mode network being highly active then we can look at neuroscience papers and what we discover is that Substances like psilocybin Fracture our sense of self and that can be traumatic and dangerous by the way and lead people PTSD Which is why I don't recommend you do it Fracture the sense of self but when when you stop when that sense of self gets fractured, you're no longer stuck Thinking about yourself and when you're no longer stuck thinking about yourself This problem of over self-awareness goes away and people get better in terms of depression Does that make sense?