 How do you tell if it's depression with a capital D or just an off day? Let me preface this by saying that I regularly see a therapist and a GP for mental health issues already. Good for you! For the past countless years of struggling with current periods of moderate depression, I have only recently realized that not everybody feels this way. Props to my therapist for that one. Previously, I had assumed that everyone else felt as crappy as I do, but they were just better at dealing with it than I am. Which obviously didn't help the negative self-talk. Beautiful! So insightful, right? So like, this is what the depressed mind tells you. Oh, everyone feels this way. They're just better at it than I am. I just suck more than they do. That's... You see that? How this person pointed out the self-talk right away? They caught it! Really good. So recently I have accepted that wow, I probably have clinical depression. I say probably because I've never asked about a diagnosis. It's not needed for insurance or any other reason where I live, but I suspect my GP would agree and slap a label on if I asked. I've been working on being kinder to myself when depressive episodes hit, e.g. focusing on self-care and not berating myself for being unproductive, which is going okay when I'm in a really bad place, as it's easy to recognize capital D depression when I'm so tired and sad that I can't get off the couch for hours at a time. But the block I've hit is what to do when it's a milder period. I'm a little sad, low-level tired all the time, having a harder time focusing, but it's not bad enough to justify being a useless, sad couch cocoon all day. My internal dialogue is confused when this happens. I know that I should try to be kind to myself, but I don't think that writing off the entire day to self-care is the best option, partly because these mildly depressed days are fairly common and partly because committing to not really getting anything done on a given day easily snowballs into two, three, four, etc. days. For me, that can lead to more intense depressive episodes. OK, so how do I tell if I'm just having a bit of an off day and need to push myself a bit to get work done? At what point do I call it and just stop even trying to work because I'm not getting anything done anyway and continuing to try is just making me more frustrated and angry with myself. It's easy to make the call when I'm really depressed, but it's a lot harder to gauge when I have milder symptoms that for most people could just be classified as an off day. Note that I'm a grad student working from home right now. I have quite a lot of flexibility in my working hours as long as I continue to make progress in my research. My supervisor is happy and I don't have set hours. This is something that I'm actively discussing with my therapist. I was just wondering if anyone here could relate and has any suggestions or insights. OK, love this case. Brilliant. OK, so first of all, the person is doing the right thing. OK, talking to your therapist about it is the right move. So you know how this person was saying that I didn't realize that other people didn't feel this way. I thought this was normal. I had no idea. So I'm going to toss out something really interesting. Analysis of this situation. Sometimes this is what getting better from depression actually looks like. So let's actually look at this for a second. OK, so the person used to be very depressed, would snowball into five days. So the question, I know it sounds really bizarre, but as severe clinical depression starts to get better, what does it look like? So instead of losing five days, you have one off day and you're not quite sure is this the real depression with a capital D or is this not? So this is sometimes what clinical improvement can look like. So remember that depression is not binary. It's not like capital D and little d. Depression is not, it's like a spectrum. So there's severe depression, there's moderate depression, there's mild depression. And as we start to actually get better, right? So as you've started to reduce the negative self-talk, as you've started to force yourself to work when you don't feel like it, as all of those things start to happen, the severity of your clinical depression is going to decrease. And so this is a sign that you're doing things right because now you're not as sick as you used to be. And so now this gets kind of confusing because you're like, well, like, am I actually depressed or am I not depressed? You're like, you probably have milder manifestations of depression that are still like occurring. So this is where I'd say, you know, there are a couple of other important things to remember. So remember that clinical depression is an episodic illness that lasts anywhere from a few weeks to up to a year. And during the episode, you can have fluctuation of symptoms in between. So what I'm hearing from this situation is that you are actually in, or like if this person walked into my office, the way that I would understand this, like with just this scenario, and there's a lot more that needs to go into making a clinical diagnosis, is that there is an active episode that is being held at bay by your significant efforts. Because this person even says, if I stop doing it, it can snowball very easily. So this is the kind of thing where it's like, my boat was leaky, very leaky, had a bunch of holes and it was sinking actively. And I patched up some of the holes. There are still some small holes left. Now I don't have to panic anymore. But I still have to empty water out of a bucket. It's not like a gigantic terror situation, but I still have to do some work. If I stop bailing water, my boat starts to sink again. What's going on here? Is it good or is it bad? Is it real depression? Is it not real depression? This really sounds to me like a situation where there may be an active depressive episode that is still ongoing, which due to the effort that you're putting in, is reducing the severity of your symptoms. So I would say absolutely keep doing what you're doing. Talk to your therapist about it. And then kind of like be aware that every day that you give into it, you know, like it may snowball. But, and I know it's frustrating. I know it's hard to like pull yourself out of it or, you know, try because you can't like pull yourself out of it. Like I know it's like you're, it sounds to me like you're getting exhausted because you're still like working. But like, I know it sounds kind of weird, but I think that the effort that you're putting in is the reason that you continue to have mild depressive days from here to here. Like every now and then, like, you know, mild depressive day here, mild depressive day there, not as bad. And that's because of all the work that you're putting in. And each one of those days when you feel a little bit frustrated because you're like, I'm not sure if this is real. I'm not sure if I'm doing it right. It's not exactly getting better. What I want you to realize is every day that you don't give into it makes one day the next week better, makes another day two weeks from now better. So this is really, it's a really good illustration of what dealing with depression actually looks like. It's really severe and very noticeable. And as it starts to get better, as it starts to get milder, you start scratching your head and you're like, is this clinical? Is it depression with a big D, not a big D? And the more that you work at it, hopefully over time, those days will happen less often. So they'll reduce in frequency, severity and duration. So good luck to you.