 Let's get started. As a kid, I was obsessed with perfectionism for a while. I tried to eat perfectly, spend all my time studying, avoid wasting any time on fun and games. I initially did this because I felt lonely and unloved as a kid and I wanted people to like me for something. This kind of paid off for a while. When I got into middle school, I was deemed gifted, praised by all my classmates for being smart. I tried desperately to maintain this, but of course burned out within a year. As I've been setting higher and higher expectations of intelligence for myself, I've become more and more afraid of falling short. I feel like if I try my best at something and fail, I'll hate myself. And I'm afraid of that. So I don't really put much effort into anything anymore. My mind is now hardwired to do things perfectly or not at all. If I'm not in the perfect mood to go to the gym, I don't go. If I can't do an assignment perfectly and in the right mood, I don't do it. I can't perform perfectly in a game. I don't enjoy it. I cope with these feelings by telling myself that I could accomplish anything if I tried, but I never actually do. I also spend a lot of time maladaptive daydreaming to distract myself from feelings of inadequacy. I just don't know what to do about any of this. I'm in college now and I feel like I'm mentally deficient because all of the time I've struggled with perfectionism. I have almost no motivation for anything in life besides basic pleasures. I didn't even solve my initial issue of loneliness. I feel like I'm an incomplete version of normal people who are actually competent, have proper support systems and know what they want in life. All right, so I know this sounds kind of weird. So this post was made 12 hours ago. I already responded to it actually. So first of all, I just want to thank people in the community who respond on our subreddit I think that I can't get to everyone and I really appreciate that some of y'all actually know our content better than I do. So I'm really grateful when people go out of their way to respond to these kinds of posts, try to support these people because y'all can do it too. That's the whole point. So this is where the other thing that I kind of want to do for a second is actually show you guys. So the reason that we made Dr. K's guides is because this is a common problem, right? So like people face this thing. And the challenge with perfectionism is that it's not like a psychiatric diagnosis. Like you can sort of walk into a therapist's office and you can say, you know, I'm perfectionistic, but there isn't like a particular playbook to deal with perfectionism. It's not something that we're sort of trained to deal with in an explicit way. So there are a lot of elements here, which I think we see, which if you guys haven't watched this, this is a good video. I think this is, you know, early on, this is one of our first uploads and I think it's gotten, you know, three quarters of a million views. And we hear a lot of good feedback on this video because this how intelligence leads to avoidance is like a big part of this story. But there are other elements too. And so we actually have in Dr. K's guides in the guide on depression, there's actually a particular video called falling behind that talks about this sort of stuff. So what I'm tempted to do is actually just share a piece of this video with you all right now. One source of feeling depressed is the persistent feeling of falling behind. And I see this way too often that people are kind of feeling like they've fallen behind and everyone else is kind of moving on with their life. And here I am kind of stuck, unable to kind of catch up. And so in order to understand and overcome the sense of falling behind, we're going to start by sort of exploring where it comes from. Then we're going to look at how it manifests in the mind. Then we're going to take a look at what our mind normally tries to do to fix it. And finally, we'll show you guys a different way to kind of overcome this sensation. So to begin with, the sense of falling behind starts with something that I usually call the problem of escalating impossibility. So this is best illustrated if you think about procrastinating before a test. So let's say that I have a test that's a month away and I kind of look at my syllabus and I say, okay, I need to study one hour a day for the rest of the month and I'll be fine. One hour a day for one month and I'm going to get an A on the test. No problem. And so is that what we actually do? Absolutely not, right? A couple days go by, we're definitely not going to study because our mind is telling us, hey, I have plenty of time. I just need to study one hour a day. We have 27 days left. No big deal. We're good. And then a week goes by. And now you start to have this little thought in the back of your mind, hey, maybe I should start studying. Like actually a week has gone by and I haven't even cracked the books like not even once. I'm going to have to study about maybe 1.5 hours a day, but that's still super manageable. I can do that every single day. And then as that thought kind of crawls up in the back of your mind, you actually try to push it away, right? So we start to distract ourselves by maybe playing video games or watching TV or whatever. In the back of your mind, your thought is there as you watch each episode, binge watching. Oh, maybe I should start studying now. But instead you're like, no, no, no, no, let's just keep watching. You just don't worry about it. We'll be fine. We have plenty of time. And then two weeks roll by and now we've got a couple of weeks left and now the panic just starts to set in just a tiny amount. I've wasted two weeks, but I've still got two weeks left and I can still do it. Two hours a day and I'll be totally fine for the test. And then each day that goes by that we don't study, the panic grows a little bit. And then we get into this vicious cycle because the more the panic grows, the harder it becomes to study. And then I find myself being like, okay, I have 10 days left. It's the weekend. Oh my God, am I going to be able to do it? And then what we end up doing is like partying all weekend long because we don't want to think about the test. And the more negative emotion we feel, the more we have to distract ourselves, the more we have to try to forget. And every day that goes by, it can feel like that perfect score on the test is getting further and further away. And then you have to study five hours a day and then you have to study eight hours a day. And at some point it starts to feel impossible. And at some point you kind of feel this gigantic mishmash of regret for not starting earlier, last minute panic to kind of push you forward and actually start studying finally. And also like kicking yourself because, oh man, this would have been so easy if I had started earlier. And so in this jumble of emotions, we kind of, it's like all of these emotions that we're feeling, we show up and we take the test and we try to forget about it immediately. We go and we distract ourselves, we go party. Oh my God, thank God it's over. So the question becomes, where did all of that emotional energy that was building up over the course of the month, where did it go? Because you feel that instant relief. It's over, it's in the past. Push it out of my mind as hard as I can. The problem is that each time we do that, that sense kind of, that emotional energy sort of gets buried in our mind as a samskar. And we sort of have this sense that I'm someone. Okay, chat, we're going to just jump forward. So that's the general premise. There's some stuff in the middle. The more insignificant any step I need seen in a long time. And so we were at this Christmas party. I was 26 or 27. And then she asked me, I'll look, what are you up to? And I was like, yeah, school. And look how far she's come. And I haven't even like, I haven't even gotten in. I don't even know if I'm going to get into medical school and she's already done with it. And it can feel so shaming to be in that situation. And when I think about like what my mind tells me in that moment, it tells me, man, do you have a lot of catching up to do? And this is the tricky thing is that the more that I have to catch up, the bigger the mountain that I need to climb, the more insignificant any step I need to take is. And this is the real problem with catching up, which is that catching up is an action that's wrapped in an expectation. And what I mean by that is that the actions that I have to take, irrespective of whether I'm behind or not, that's just all a mental construction. The actions that I have to take are actually exactly the same. Whether I'm trying to lose a bunch of weight, if I'm trying to lose 100 pounds or 50 pounds or 20 pounds, the action is still the same. It's still to go to the gym. The problem is that if I'm trying to lose 100 pounds and I go to the gym, then it feels like I haven't really taken a step forward. And so as I try to catch up, the more my mind tells me you need to catch up, you need to catch up, you need to catch up, the harder it is to actually take one step forward. So bizarrely, what we need to do in order to move forward is to let go of catching up. And if we want to move forward from falling behind, what we really need to do is let go of catching up and this idea that you've fallen behind, because it doesn't matter. I mean, behind is a mental construction. Catching up is a mental construction. If you want to get into shape, you have to go to the gym. That's the only way forward. Your way forward is exactly the same. And this complex of falling behind and catching up is just layered on top of your mind and makes every action way more hard. So then that begs the question, why is it so damn hard to let go of catching up? Why is it so damn hard to let go of falling behind? And this is where the redemption art comes in, because we've been raised on a culture of triumph that the hero at 45 minutes into the movie is, you know, everything is stacked against him. And that's when you dig deep and you really win and you become an amazing person. So I remember after that Christmas party, you know, I went home and I was like laying in bed and I was thinking the only way that I can catch up is I have to go to Harvard because she didn't go to Harvard. And if I go to Harvard, I'm going to do better than her. I'll be better than her. I can actually catch up. The more far behind I fall, the more I have to become awesome and magnificent. If I've dropped out of college, I have to start a billion dollar tech startup to make up for it. And in that moment, what our mind is trying to do is we have all of this dormant emotional energy, all of these times that we've told ourselves, you can do better. You should have started studying earlier. Why are you so dumb? Why didn't you start? Why didn't you start? Why didn't you start? All that emotion, emotional energy is sitting down there. And so what our mind has to do is I need a triumph. I need a victory. I need something that can make me feel so good about myself that it's stronger than all of that toxicity of me being a person who's fallen behind. And that's the real problem is because if I tell you to stop catching up, if I tell you to let go of catching up, what are you letting go of is that fantasy of that triumph. You become in your mind the hero who just quits at 45 minutes, right? Instead of triumphing over everything and being the victor, I'm suddenly just a guy who is 26 years old and applying to medical school. So the desire to catch up is actually what keeps us stuck. And if you really want to move forward, you have to let that go. You have to let go of the entire construction, right? Because what does it mean to have fallen behind? It's a construct of the mind. What does it mean to catch up? It's a construct of the mind. What does it mean to have triumph and redemption? It's all thoughts in my head. If I meet that my friend next year at the Christmas party, it's just a conversation I'm going to have. If I'm in medical school, I'm in medical school. If I've caught up, I've caught up. If I haven't, whatever. It's just it's all the same. I'm a medical student. I'm a medical student. Reality is one thing, and we just layer a construct on top of it. So the way to move forward is to let go of catching up. The way to move forward is to recognize that action can only be taken in the present and moving forward may never allow that. It may never let me catch up, but I don't need to catch up. All I really need to do to become unstuck is to move forward. And so the problem of falling behind, the some Scott are falling behind, is something that people struggle with a lot. And my hope is that by understanding how it's born, how it's how it manifests, how our mind tries to deal with it, we can actually take a slightly different approach. We can unplug that entire mental construction and start to actually do something that moves our life in the right direction. So let's talk about this for a second. So like this is like literally why we made Dr. Case guides, like literally. It's because like these problems that people face, right, like these things that people post 12 hours ago, it really wasn't a plan. It like you guys know, like this is what we deal with. And the issue is that there are actually things that can be done about this. So let's kind of unpack this. And the reason that I showed it is because frankly, any explanation that I give here is not going to be as clean and as polished as like what's in the guide because, you know, we wrote out a script and we did takes and all that good stuff. But here's here are a couple of elements to it. OK, these are the guides that are being released in like six weeks or something. So here's the thing. So someone says, OK, I'm perfectionistic. Like, why are they perfectionistic? So that they have the element of, you know, being gifted at the beginning, right, which is the whole intelligence leads to avoidance thing. So check out that YouTube video. But then here's the big problem with being perfectionistic. As I fall behind, I have in my mind a mental anchor of where I should be. And then the challenge is that if I take a step towards where I should be. So like, let's say like I'm 100 pounds overweight. If I lose two pounds and I set a mental anchor that I need to lose 100, it feels like I haven't made any progress. Like, if I feel kind of insecure about myself, if I feel like I fall in behind, I lose two pounds of weight. And then instead of being inspired by that, my body actually does the my mind does the opposite. It says like, this is never going to be enough. As long as I strive for perfection, as long as I anchor myself to some artificial goal, anything that I do is never going to be enough. But if I let go of that, that perfectionism, if I let go of that, then like losing two pounds, like in order to lose 100 pounds, I have to lose two pounds. Absolutely. If my goal is to lose 100 pounds, it has to start by losing two. I can't lose all 100 all at once. But the problem is that when we have this idea of perfectionism, we set up this goal for ourselves of what we want to be. And as we like move towards that goal, instead of like actually getting positive reinforcement by taking one step forward, the more we strive for perfectionism, the harder it is to actually take like one step forward. Because anything that you do on the journey is going to be insufficient, won't be perfectionistic. So then you end up staying stuck. Right. So like, I'm not going to try anything until I can be perfect, which in turn means that I'm paralyzed by the fact that I'm not going to be perfect. It means that I'm paralyzed because I can never try anything because the first time I try something, I'm never going to be perfect. And so this this is a huge problem. So how do you let go of that? Right. It's about sort of like understanding where did this idea of perfectionism come from? Because it is a construct of the mind. There's no such thing as a perfect anything. Like you look around, there's no such thing as a perfect like walk outside. Like I'm in a place where there are plants outside. So if you look outside, there's no such thing as a perfect plant. Perfection is a construct of the human mind. It cannot be found in nature. In nature, the only thing that is is just like what is there's no such thing as a perfect rock. There's no such thing as a perfect orbit. There's no such thing as like a perfect anything. Right. It's a human construct. Even geometric perfection is like that's a that's a human that says that this is geometric perfection. Right. We are the ones who apply the standard of perfection. It's not a real thing. And so like the more that we chase that idea of perfection, the more it actually paralyzes us because anything. So this is what I would the key point that I want you all to understand. If you hold on to perfectionism, it is actually does not reinforce progress. Progress and perfectionism are at two ends of the spectrum. And because if I like like if I want to iterate, if I want to try, if I want to get better, if I want to progress, progress is not about the end. It's about the beginning or the next step. And so the more I hold on to perfectionism, the harder it is to progress. I won't let myself progress. And so that's the that's the huge scam about this kind of thinking. And you all are right that like, you know, it's hard, right? Because if you let go of your perfectionism, like what are you left with? Because the reason that you need the perfectionism is because you have to make up for like all the stuff that you didn't do right. We look at this case, you know, like my mind is now hardwired to do things perfectly or not at all. If I'm not in the perfect mood to the gym, I don't go right. So like this is the problem. So then then like where did this come from? And so this this this is a result of this right here is I began setting higher and higher expectations of intelligence for myself. I become more and more afraid of falling short. And you can't like there's no such thing as falling short. Falling short is all about not living up to an expectation in your mind. If I lose two pounds at the gym, I lose two pounds of the gym. If I do 10 pushups, I do 10 pushups. If I do 20 pushups, I do 20 pushups. The action plus the expectation need to be separated. So if you're stuck in perfectionism, what you need to do is separate the action from the expectation. Recognize that like everything in your head is just some psychological construct. It's not like a real thing. And as you separate out the expectation from the action, then you'll be able to act practically. What that looks like is like, you know, really exploring, you know, what makes it hard for you to go to the gym and not be perfect? Because with the thought of going to the gym and not being perfect, like what does that evoke in your mind? What's like the emotion that comes up when you think about doing that? Because chances are it'll be something like shame. It'll be something like dissatisfaction. It'll be it feels like it's not enough. It feels like it's not enough. And then I encourage you to like look at that for a second. What you're experiencing there is not truth. It's an emotion, right? So like as you experience the emotion, recognize that that's just an emotion. And this kind of reminds me like this is a lesson that I learned when I was talking to someone who was responsible for security at a college campus. And so like we I was dealing with someone in the emergency room who had been through a traumatic experience. And I talked to the security officer at the university. And then they the university officer said that, you know, so I mentioned to them that this person doesn't feel safe. And then the university person said, it's my job to make campus safe, not to make people feel safe. I can't like control the pain, the way that people feel. What I can control is actually creating an environment that is like safe for them to be in. And it was like a shocking thing to say, because it sounded so like cold and callous on the one hand, right? Like and the security guys like, yeah, I don't care if people feel safe. You know, that's sort of what it sounded like. But I mean, he didn't say that. He wasn't saying that he didn't care. He said that his real responsibility is to create a safe environment. And sometimes even in a safe environment, people feel unsafe. So what are we actually like? What are we? What are we going off of here? Like, what is our compass? Are we going to let our feelings of inadequacy dictate what we actually do? Because as you tunnel down into perfectionism, what you'll discover is like what's actually holding you back, like what's what's dictating your life is an emotion. And so like the emotion is like I'm not saying that we shouldn't be compassionate towards the emotion. The emotion can be valid, but at the end of the day, it's an emotion. And this is the really tricky thing about emotions is that the more strong your emotion is, the more you think it is reality. When in actuality, the less likely it is to be real. Right. So as I become angry, my perception of reality becomes more distorted, the more angry I feel. But if you talk to someone who's angry, they are going to think that their mind is 100 percent accurate. And so it's a really problematic like conundrum that the more distorted our perceptions are, the more convinced we are that our perceptions are correct. And so when it comes to perfectionism, pay attention to what it is that holds you back from doing something less than perfect, because that's where the money is going to be. And as you are able to tolerate that negative emotion, you will actually become unstuck. And yeah, I mean, that's like just to reiterate, like that's why we made the guides, because like, you know, the goal is that like, you know, instead of so let's just think about this for a second. Like instead of like RNG, right, which is OK, so someone someone, you know, just posting something on Reddit and just happens to be the day that we do a community scream. Like a lot of these answers are in the guides, which is why we made them. And so the goal is to like actually give you guys, you know, 70 percent of like what most people need. And that's because the last 30 percent tends to be like very individual. But, you know, 70 percent of it is like I share the same stuff with like 70 percent of people that I work with. So that's what's in there. All right. Moving on to the next one. Community stream stream. Speaking of community screen. Max one. OK.