 So lost and weird. Okay. So hi, I'm new here. I love Dr. K videos on YouTube. It's something that has been helping me a lot. I'm 23 and I have a feeling of emptiness inside and a strong need for human warmth, almost like a child. I think that that's creepy, but it's how I feel. I have a hard time socializing. I hate the sense that I have to put a mask on. I feel like I'm being false and isolated from everybody. It's like we all individually live in our own small islands, and we are alone forever trapped inside. It's weird. I want to be more confident and care less about what other people think and be myself, but I don't know how. I just feel alone. Okay. This is a really great post because I think there's a really tricky problem that we run into when we lack confidence and have trouble making connections with people. So let's just think through how this works. Okay. So this is like the problem with the chicken and the egg, because when you don't... So let's say like on the inside, I'm not confident in myself. So what happens is I put a mask on and then I go and relate to other people with the mask. And then the problem that arises is because the people are relating to the mask, I don't necessarily become more confident in myself. What happens is I become confident in the people's reaction to the mask. So as a person, what I think... So for example, I'm a loke and then like, let's just call the mask Dr. K. And so what I start to think is, oh, people like Dr. K, but what does that do to my confidence? It actually doesn't increase it at all. In fact, it can make me even more insecure because what people are responding positively to is Dr. K and is not all loke. And so the more that this happens, the more we get stuck. So now I know that people like Dr. K and I think that they may not like me because they clearly like Dr. K. What if I show them the rest of me? Like, there's no way that showing them the ugly bits on the inside of my psyche is going to get them to like me more than what they like Dr. K as. And so then I get stuck because like what happens is like people start to love Dr. K more than they love Dr. K. And the more that they love Dr. K, the harder it is to be all loke. Because then it's like, oh my God, like I can be this and then people will like me if I continue to be Dr. K. And so what happens is we get addicted to wearing the mask because we think other people are addicted to the mask and that they won't like us on the inside. And then we get really, really stuck because we know how to put on the mask. We know how to get good reactions from people, but we get more and more stuck and we become more and more insecure. And then we wind up feeling empty on the inside. We long for human connection, but we don't want to risk it. Right? It's an all an issue of risk because if I take off the mask, what are people going to see? How are they going to react? What if I, and it hurts. It's fear. There's like fear, right? What if they don't like me on the inside? And it's tricky because the very adaptation that we use, which is the mask, which is to like, you know, make it easy for us to interact with other people, becomes our curse. So our solution is the problem. The fact that I put on a mask, that I don't behave authentically with people because there's so much ugliness on the inside, because I'm so insecure, actually reinforces that insecurity and that insecurity will never get fixed. So it's challenging. So what this person should do and what all of you should do if you've gotten addicted to wearing a mask, and if other people know just the mask is you've got to show them what else is there. And that's really, really dangerous because then they could reject you. Rejecting the mask is oddly enough, like kind of okay, because it's not really who you are, right? It's just a mask. So it requires a lot of courage. And it's tricky because like, how are you going to know, how are you going to form that connection with someone? They can't form the connection with a mask. You have to take the mask off, but then you have to be vulnerable. And if you're vulnerable, then they can hurt you. And this is where the insecurity, the lack of confidence comes in. So it's really, really tricky, but you got to take the mask off, right? And you can do it in small steps. I'm not saying like, you know, bear your soul to everyone. I'm just saying like, do it in little steps. You can say like, hey, you know, if someone asks you, how are you doing? You can try, I know it sounds crazy. You can try saying, not great. And then they'll be like, you know, so what you're doing is you're like, it's a game of like ping pong or tennis, where you're like hitting a ball across the other side, and you're going to see what they do with it. Some of them are going to peace out, they're going to drop the racket and walk away from the court, right? Which is totally fine. And then that hurts a little bit. But some of them will hit it back. Oh, what's not right in your life? What's going wrong? And then you can choose to share a little bit. You can say, oh, I had a terrible game of Valorant, where I was going to win, but then we ended up feeding. And then there was just one dude left on the enemy team and he wiped us all. Okay. You could say that. Or you could say, I feel kind of lonely. Like, I feel alone. And then you hit that across. That's like a fastball. You're like, and then you'll see what they do with it. Right? And so this is where, you know, part of the reason that we have this coaching program is because we've got to teach people how to be vulnerable. We want to create a space where you can start to swim in those waters and learn to express vulnerability. And then sure, they're your coach. So they're supposed to accept you, which they're actually not trained to do. We train our coaches to be authentic, not polite, and not nice. It's actually something that we try to get out of them. Like, because I think like, authentic responses are important, right? So like, if you screw up, or you say something bad, your coach isn't going to like forgive you for it. They'll like hold you accountable. And they'll tell you how they feel listening to it. But they're going to be there. They're going to be there. Anyway, they'll share their reaction will be like, Okay, this is how I feel about what you just said. What are we going to do about that? And so the tricky thing here is that the more you wear a mask, the more it keeps you from connecting to people. And then taking the mask off involves opening yourself up being vulnerable. And then you can get hurt. But ultimately, that's what you have to do. And so if we go back to what this person is saying, right, I have a hard time socializing, I hate the sense that I have to put a mask on. And I feel like I'm being false and isolated from everyone. Exactly. Like we're all individually live in our own islands, and we're alone forever trapped inside. So build a bridge to someone else's island. And this is where like you can also if you guys are concerned about how do I build a bridge, I don't want to be vulnerable, you pay attention to other people, because other people will be hitting things across your court. When someone says, you know, how are you doing today? If they don't say fantastic, they say things are going okay. Then you say, Oh, so it sounds like some stuff is going well, and some stuff isn't. Do you want to talk about either one? And then they say, Yeah, like, so on the upside, I got a promotion on the downside, I just got dumped. And then that's where you can say like, Oh, yeah, I've been dumped before too. In fact, I got dumped two years ago, and I still haven't gotten over it. You know, and like, then you guys are like hitting the ball back and forth, you're sharing a little bit, they're sharing a little bit. And then hopefully, you start to feel more connected with people. And as you feel more connected with people, like you can't develop that confidence unless you test their reaction to what's on the inside. And we see this a lot too, sometimes with like provocative stuff, right? Sometimes people will be provocative, and they'll be like, Oh, you know, like, if someone's provocative, they're like, Yeah, no one likes me. And they'll say that out loud. They're like provoking you to engage with them in some way. So it's tricky. tricky. Right? So, so like type two B says, I've never been in a relationship to get dumped. So you toss that out there. And that's where we say like, Yeah, man, or woman. Like, what's that like? And so other people are saying like, you see what's happening? So I want you guys to pay attention to chat because it's happening here. So I've never been in a relationship, and then someone else is saying, I'm so fat. And, and like other people are like opening up a little bit, see, like, if you guys are reading chat, this is where, like people are making, you know, people are making, you know, people are like putting themselves out there. Right? So you can add someone else in the chat. So someone else is like, I'm the opposite of fat. So now this is now we're talking about fat gang. I'm ugly. I'm this I'm that. So now this is where we as a community, we come together. And I'm going to ask you guys the question, what's it like to have a body that you're unhappy with? Right? So like, what's sad about it? What's not great about it? So one person says it's very restrictive. What's restrictive about having a body that you're unhappy with? What's anxiety inducing about it? I can't feel free. What keeps you from feeling free? What is your body restrict you from doing? Thanks for the host, by the way, tell do you get treated differently. It feels harder to be accepted. So now we get somewhere, there's social limitations, right? Who is putting those limitations on you? When you say it feels harder to be accepted? Is that a feeling or a truth? People judge you for it. Right? How do you get judged? What's it like to be judged? Right? So this is hard, right? So this is where now people are saying like, it's mostly myself. I don't feel comfortable around others. But let's be honest, they judge you too, right? So if you're when I was thinking about like being restricted, like summer is coming up, some people may go to the beach, and you may not feel comfortable going to the beach, because you have to wear less clothing. And like, you may feel judged. Like, it certainly sounds restrictive. Me judging you judging me. Right? And this is tough. And so then like, what are we going to do about that as a group? Right? So this is a problem that a lot of people like have, right? One person is even saying, I occasionally have suicidal ideation. Right? I can get that like feeling so ashamed in yourself that like, you don't even want this body anymore. Like, screw this body. Like, the body is screwing you. It's not letting you live your life. So you're gonna be like, screw it. I can understand that. And now what's happening? So I know it sounds weird. But like, you're talking to someone on the internet. But like, hopefully, if you pay attention to yourself, maybe you feel a little bit less alone, even with no like, direct interaction with another human being, right? So we have this weird Dr. K interacting with Twitch chat. And so it's kind of like, but like, this is good because you guys have taken a very safe step forward and being vulnerable, which is like being vulnerable to people in Twitch chat. And like, they can't see you, they can't judge you, but you can hear them. And like, we all share an experience. That's what we're about. And so this is where like, this is why we kind of have our group coaching model, because there's always this problem. If you work with a therapist or a coach, which is that like, your therapist is paid to accept you. They're paid to do it. Right? So if you like, go to a therapist and you say like, oh, I'm a disgusting, you know, I'm like, my body is hideous. The therapist is like, and that's not, you're beautiful on the inside. I think you're a wonderful person. And then there's some part of you that's like, well, you're paid to say that. And so this is what I really like. I think the most important thing about group coaching is like, it's not about us, right? It's like about you guys winning your each other's respect. Because sure, your coach is paid to like you. I mean, that's not actually what they're paid for. But that's how it feels. Right? That's how it feels. And so when you guys share this stuff with each other, like, this is what the connection for the community is about. This is what like, this is why this person posts on Reddit. And let's just go and take a look at this real quick. Right? What are people saying in the comments? So like, even this is enough. Like, I can relate, don't have answers for you, but you're aren't alone at being alone like that. Right? And then like, thank you. And then this person's like, did I write this? I was thinking basically the exact same thought, especially about the island thing. Perception is reality. And therefore, we all live in our own world alone. I personally think it comes from an intrinsic lack of self worth. Great. So someone's been doing some self reflection. If I don't have the worth, I have to be someone else to be valued by others. So I never show my true self. So this person's been perfect. Basically exactly what I said. And so we could both be wrong, but at least we'll be wrong together. And if I never show my true self, then none of the connections I've ever made are real. Ironically, reading this feels makes me feel less alone. I hope we figure this out. This is like, this is basically what we, this is group coaching happening on Reddit. Right? And then like, this person's great too. Why do you have to put a mask on? And so this is what the AOE healing is about. Like we, so the problem is that, you know, here's the problem is that we all feel like islands, but we're all one connected landmass. We're like a continent. It's like Pangea up in here. And then like, everyone's like, oh, I'm on my own island. And why are you on your own island? Because everyone's wearing a damn mask and no one talks about like what they're feeling. So when one person goes out there and is like, oh, I feel alone and I feel like I'm on an island. And they're all like, hey, we're all on islands too. And you guys are on the same loneliness island. It turns out that it's actually Pangea. And how did this interaction happen? It's because one person went out there. So I do, I'm trying to think about this, but I was, hold on. Let me just think about, let me think about privacy concerns for a second. So I work with some people and we like came up with this analogy, right? So some of these people are gamers. And I don't know if you guys are familiar with like the idea of like in MOBAs, you know how you have like tier one towers, tier two towers, tier three towers, tier four towers, and like the base or fountain or whatever. And so like the right thing to do is when someone dives the fountain, like what do you do? Like you dive with them. So in a group setting, when someone expresses vulnerability, they're out there. They're taking that like they've dove way deep into enemy lines and there's like no support and they're wiping. And so what do you do? You charge right in there with them. And sure, like you throw the game if you're playing a MOBA, but like when it comes to connecting with other human beings, like that's what you've got to do. You feed together. Exactly. If we're going to throw the game, we're going to like fountain dive together. Don't alt F4 and report them. That's the problem is like, that's what we normally do. That's what we expect to do. But you've got to dive with them. When your teammates are diving, like you dive with them. Have you guys, I don't know if you guys have seen OG fountain dive people in pro games, but like that doesn't work if only one of them is fountain diving. Like the reason that works is because they all fountain dive together and then you crush the enemy spirit. And that's what we're going to have to do. When one person is vulnerable, you have to, you know, you got to meet them, meet them, meet them there. Don't let them do it alone.