 We've talked a little bit about why it is that gamers have trouble moving into the world. And now we're going to, and where that comes from, now we're going to dig in a little bit further and look at how a gamer's mind is organized. So gamers tend to be objective-oriented. And if you think about this, whenever you're playing a game, there's always some kind of objective. If you're playing something like Assassin's Creed, you're supposed to go assassinate this guy. If you're playing World of Warcraft and you're trying to do some kind of quest, it's like collect six pig tusks or something like that. There's always a goal in a game. So gamers, when our mind does something for a long time, it gets used to doing things in that way. And so since gamers spend so much time with their mind focused on an objective, their mind learns how to be very, very objective-oriented. And that's not actually exclusive to gamers. I'd say that most of our society tends to be objective or outcome-oriented. If you think about school, in school they actually don't care what you learn. They care what your grade is. And the grade is an outcome, which is actually a little bit different from how much you know. If you look at something like the stock market, the stock market depends on things like, did you meet your quarterly expectations? Were your profits higher than expected or lower than expected? Our society is built around the idea that outcomes are the important thing. And the funny thing about that is that focusing on outcomes can actually get in the way of gamers moving into the world. When a gamer tries to do something, if they know that the outcome is not going to be good or there's a decent chance that the outcome isn't going to be good, they actually avoid doing the entire thing. For example, if a gamer thinks that, oh, you know, I'm not going to find a great job, so there's no point in applying. Or other things like that, like there's no point in asking a girl out because she's just going to say no. And so since they're so focused on a particular outcome, it actually prevents them from even trying. And that has a lot of different kind of complicated psychological stuff associated with it, things around ego and feeling hurt and feeling rejected. But for now, we're just going to focus a little bit on what it means to be outcome oriented. And so since gamers are actually pretty analytical and they're pretty good at predicting things, if they believe that there's a chance that something won't work, they actually avoid the entire phenomenon. And that is actually a really damning way to go through life because a lot of times you have to try something a couple times in order for you to get it to work. And a lot of times gamers don't try stuff because when they do try stuff, it doesn't work out and they feel worse and they feel rejected and they say, oh, I knew it wasn't going to work anyway, why did I even do it? And then the next time around, they're not even going to do something. So if you find that you have this kind of thought process, there's a good chance that this isn't going to work, so I'm not even going to bother. If you find yourself thinking that kind of thought, then chances are that's part of the reason why you're not able to move forward in life. Because you don't even give yourself a chance to try, you don't even roll the dice, right? You just sort of say, oh, fuck it, I'm not going to do it because chances are it's not going to work. And a lot of my personal success is because I took these really, you know, drastic Hail Marys. I'll give you guys a quick example. So when I graduated from the University of Texas at Austin, my GPA was 2.6. And that was after doing really well my last two and a half years. I mean, after the first two years, I had like less than a 2.0. And so after I finished graduating with an undergraduate degree in neurobiology, I applied for a research job because that's usually what people with biology degrees do. And I applied to 130 research labs for a research assistant position. And out of those, I got one interview. And the interview was, I lived in Houston at the time, and the interview was in Dallas, which I wasn't even sure if I was going to move there. And so then I was thinking, well, you know, screw this, like I tried, I've tried, I've applied to so many positions, fuck it. And then I saw that there was one position opening up of at all places Harvard University. And I was like, you know what, it's a neuroscience lab on Tai Chi, that sounds pretty cool, I'd love to study that. And so I applied to the position, and I ended up getting an interview. And I was really surprised. And I was like, wait, how did this happen? How does a guy with a 2.6 GPA who's applied for 130 research positions end up getting an interview for a position at Harvard of all places? And so I went to the interview, and I interviewed there. And it turned out that they liked me and I liked them, and I ended up getting the job. And that's when I realized that I was the only applicant. Of all of these other places that I applied to, there were like dozens of applicants because no one thought, and no one had applied to Harvard. And why was that? Because they didn't think they were good enough. And so that's when I learned a really important lesson, that you've actually got to try, because you don't literally know what's going to happen. And gamers think they know what's going to happen, which makes sense, because you guys are super analytical. If you think about it, a game trains you to make analytical decisions, like to make an analytical read of the situation, and then make a decision about what's going to happen. And that capacity is actually far above the average population in gamers. But the problem is that in the real world, you actually don't know what's going to happen. It's not like a video game where the rules are set in stone. The real world is way more nebulous. So one of the things that you guys need to do, if you feel like you're, if you're not moving forward in life, and if you have this kind of thought process that, oh, it's probably not going to work, so I might as well not bother. If you fall into that category, this is what you need to do. And this is another cognitive reframe. And it's to shift from being action, I mean, to being outcome oriented to action oriented. So don't focus on the outcome of your action. Don't focus on the grade. Try to focus on what you actually learn. Try to focus on what you're doing, not what you're getting. So I'll give you guys a prime example. So a lot of gamers say that I need to get in shape. What does that even mean, get in shape? Like you can't, you can't get into shape. Like that's not a thing. What, like, what is that? Like, does that mean having washboard abs? Does that mean losing 10 pounds? Does that mean being able to bench press 300 pounds? Does that mean chicks turn around and look at your butt when you walk by? Like, what does that mean, getting into shape? It's not a thing. It's not a real thing. And this is the way that gamers think. They tend to think in really broad kind of abstract terms. They think about these goals like, oh, I need to, I need to get rich. Like, what is rich? Is that $10,000 a year? Is it $50,000 a year? Is it a million dollars a year? Is it $10 million a year? We don't actually know. It's not a real thing. So what they need to do, instead of focusing on getting into shape, is be action oriented. So change that from a goal, from an objective, like getting into shape, to even, you can look at something like a more concrete goal. Like you can say, okay, getting in shape means losing 10 pounds. But even that, I would say, what gamers need to do is don't focus on the goal, focus on the action. So instead of telling yourself, I need to get into shape or I need to lose 10 pounds, tell yourself that I need to go to the gym three times a week. And it doesn't matter what you do at the gym, just focus on the action. And the more that you're able to focus on the action, the better off your life will become. Because at that point, you're just going to the gym three times a week. Whether you get into shape or you don't get into shape actually doesn't matter so much. The more that you focus on what you're doing, the better your chances are of being successful in life. So instead of focusing on getting a job, why don't you focus on applying to 10 jobs a week? You guys see the difference there? It's subtle, but it's actually gigantic. One is something that is absolutely under your control. You can apply to 10 jobs a week. And the other thing is something that's actually not under your control, which is finding a job. Because maybe all those jobs are filled, maybe they're not filled, maybe there are more competitive candidates, maybe the people there don't like you, maybe they don't like your name, so they're going to throw your application away, maybe the mailman throws, gets the application lost. There are a lot of things that can happen in terms of outcomes which are actually outside of your control. And the more that gamers get hung up on outcomes, the more problems they run into. And if you guys want to really start getting control of your life, if you want your life to start moving forward, then what you need to do is focus on the action. Don't try to get in shape, go to the gym. Just go to the gym three times a week and do whatever the fuck you want to. Sit on a bench if you want to, I don't care. But you'll be surprised, you'll be amazed at how much focusing on the action and ignoring the result actually moves you closer to the result. And that kind of paradox is something that we'll talk a little bit more about. But just to sum up, if you feel like you're not moving forward in life and you are having this kind of thought in your head that what's the point of even trying? There's no way it's going to work. That is paralyzing and that's what's keeping you guys stuck. And the reason that you think that way is because games have trained your brain to be objective oriented. And games have also taught you that you are really good at analyzing a situation and predicting the outcome. But that analysis and prediction only holds true in the game. In the real world is a different place. But your brain actually doesn't realize that. Your brain just has a certain kind of machinery or algorithm and it tries to use that algorithm as much as possible. And so what you guys need to do in order to move forward is reframe from being objective oriented to being action oriented. Don't try to find a job. Just apply to 10 jobs a week. Don't try to get into shape. Just go to the gym three times a week. And the more that you can change from a goal to an action, the better off you're going to be. Any questions?