 I think there's it's first of all completely acceptable to set sort of boundaries on what is acceptable communication and what is not acceptable communication But what pushes people to do this? Why do I don't know that people pretend to be stalkers? That's just what they're that's just the manifestation. My guess is that they want to be noticed Kind of like when the kid in class acts up to get attention of the class Yeah, and then teacher and and oftentimes the kid who acts up doesn't quite know what drives them to act up They just know that they need to be you know, they act up So when do you plan to throw that food back up your fat fat girls shouldn't eat. Hey, what is the song? What is this song? How does it feel to be a stripper for 10 year olds? And that was before I had the poll so I don't know what they're talking about Not gonna ask about the parts for a thousand dollars in a jar debating asking about I can send you some jars For the novelty effect. Just like a little you don't even have to open it Just like to sit on your little shelf back there as a souvenir Okay Hello, hi i'm still getting your video on my screen. Oh, let's see All right, how are you though i'm doing well i'm really looking forward to the weekend i've had a busy week in a busy couple weeks How about yourself Really good. Yeah, i've been staying busy too got my game show coming up In may that i'm hosting Can you tell me about that? Uh, it is going to be Called streamer royale a bunch of different streamers. We've got like xqc moist critical jack manifold Wow, me too A miskif says yes austin is going to be there too um Yeah, a lot of people so many people we're still adding more so And and what is the what is the nature of the game show? Uh, it's gonna be a series of physical challenges. I don't want to give away too much of course. Yeah That sounds intriguing Yeah competition style. That's very cool Yeah Okay, so we're gonna be looking at band appeals today We are yes, we are so should we dive in or you want to lay ground rules or how does this work? um We can we can dive into them. Are you a mod in my Problem, oh, they should just mod you. I don't think you're a mod that way. You can see band appeals too. Okay, where do I go? Uh, once I mod you there'll be like a little sword icon At the bottom of the chat Which chat My chat So I should go to So I might be able to just link you the url. Let me see I will go to Hold on, let's do this I think I'm audited Okay, hold on technical I can just link this to you Does that work for you? I've linked it into discord chat. Um, let me see Work work work fingers crossed amaranth Yes, I see a window Yeah And um, there's a way to sort them at the top. This is uh, Like latest first oldest first. I like to go by oldest first. Okay, and and is this okay if I show this on stream? Yes, i'm gonna i'm gonna show it on the stream too. Okay, so i'm just I want to be um careful about Uh You know because people will be able to see who we're talking about right if we show it on screen Crop out, um their usernames and profile pictures Is how I do it like I crop out the entire left column of that window where it has like the list and I just focus on the actual Okay, so since I have not done that i'm not going to show it on my screen. Can you screen share with me? Uh, it won't Screen share the cropped view here. I'll show you the cropped view in a sec when I have it so you can just Perfect. Thank you so much Uh, yeah, are you reading them or yes? Welcome to my insanity Well, we could pick the ones that you want to Because I I think some of these are pretty I don't I don't know what yeah Um, I did look through Just a few of them there's been a lot more exersing good I did a collab this past week with two other girls and you know that always brings the weirdos Um when there's multiple girls in the stream, so most of these I haven't seen either A few of them I did save for you though, like the really old ones. Okay, cool maybe the first 10 or so are ones that i've seen before where I just thought it was a Interesting evolution going down. Okay, so I think i'm ready to start. Let's do this. Okay Which one do you want to start with Sanborn Okay, so I like this the oldest i'm just going by oldest All right. Let's take a look at this Okay Um, so let's see this says Wow You want to read this out or Yeah, i'll read it. Okay. Sure Wow money rules the world I swear she is my dad's girlfriend. I want to be my dad now sometimes in life We are lucky to view things like this her dad probably wants some like where does this? So where does this come from? Can we start by I don't even know if I understand what this person is trying to say I don't either Okay, so so if we go through this so wow money rules the world I don't understand what that what what is he talking about there? Uh, that's a great question. You know, I would assume that probably just like You know how they say like things people do for money when they talk about streamers or youtubers. Um, probably something to that effect okay and all right, so And then money rules the world. So that's just World so that's just so I swear she is my dad's girlfriend. I want to be my dad now So that's bannable for you get a timeout, right? For 600 seconds just because I think my my mod's like this guy's kind of weird. There's time to mount for being weird. Yeah That in and of itself is not necessarily I guess his dad has a girlfriend that looks like you or maybe Maybe maybe I think the the bannable offense was her dad probably wants some Yeah, so that's that's uh incest comment, right? That is an incest comment. Yes. Yes. That's pretty bannable, right? right Yeah, so I don't know. How old do you think that person is if you had to guess? Uh, I don't know maybe 20 20 oh that's old. Okay. How old do you think they are? Like 12 Maybe 13 14. What one sum is probably like a 14 year old at least 14 terminology Yeah, i'm sorry, but i'll be respectful though, I don't know I I don't so is there is there some kind of appeal Where do we see the appeal? I know the appeal is that at the bottom it says i'm sorry, but i'll be respectful. Thanks. That's him Appealing his chat history and you get to choose deny or unban. So what do you think? I don't know. Honestly, he probably he could probably be Unbanned because it's not like a death threat. Yeah, but i'm just wondering What makes people say incest comments? Um That's such a good question. Let me just think about that for a second because i'm trying to understand Sometimes in life we are lucky to view things Right, what does that mean? I mean Like this Maybe he maybe he was talking about he's talking about you that we're lucky to view things like you maybe probably Her dad wants to be his dad And he thinks that i'm his dad's girlfriend I would only assume that So he is calling me attractive But I could be wrong. Yeah, so that's let's talk about that for a moment Can we just spend a moment talking about the different ways in which you can call a woman attractive? He could just be like you look nice. Yeah, but so so You were asking about why do people say things like this? I think it's because they don't know how to simply compliment someone right? So we see a lot of this weird passive aggressive You know in in the pickup artist community, they call it nagging Which is when you insult someone when you like them, right? And then sometimes you get I mean, I guess sometimes it works my take on You know that community is that they tend to have a bunch of techniques that work on People who don't have a whole lot of confidence in themselves So they're sort of like this selection bias and that's also why they kind of say like you have to keep trying you have to Try it a hundred times. Yeah, consult people a hundred times Eventually, you're going to find someone with low enough confidence where it takes advantage of their psychological traumas and they respond to you well in some way but I mean, I think if what we're talking about here is you know, if he wants to compliment you It's a weird way it's a weird way of doing it My guess is that this person has feelings that they don't understand and I would agree they're they're frightened by their feelings and Also, they don't know how to behave properly. But also, I don't know if they've ever had a role model about behaving properly Uh-huh right and I imagine that sometimes As many streamers do you excite particular feelings in your audience? I do too. Mm-hmm I tend to be merciful though. So I mean if you feel like giving this person a second chance, I'm game What do you think yeah, I think so Okay. Okay. Cool. Let's do it Do it. Do it. Did you click the button? Yeah, I click the button. Okay. Awesome Strong work. What's next? This is uh, kia's okay, so we're just going down the line. All right. Yeah, we are. Okay. Let's do it Is He did they bang overnight? So I had s fend over for a collab and we did a sleep stream In my bed, but obviously it was very very platonic But why is that obvious? It is obvious. I should be obvious anyways, but you know, sometimes chat can't hear you Yes, they think that that can never be platonic. Yeah Yes, okay What is give it in my eyes? I'm see that part is what i'm confused by also. I don't know if he meant like Cooming in the eyes or I don't I don't I don't know what that means either I don't know what that means either I don't I don't I don't know what that means either What is coming in the eyes? Who me is like jizzing? Oh Yeah, yeah, I guess I could have put that together Okay, hold on. All right. So let's let's Okay, so did they bang it overnight give it in my eyes Maybe what he's looking for I think what he's looking for is the Is the representation of the banging maybe he wants to see that Yeah, yeah, yeah And then is he her boyfriend? And then if it was me, I would f her. So what did this person get banned for? It's the if it was me, I would f her. Yeah a little entitlement a little uh rapey vibes Okay Like isn't isn't if this person was engaging in a platonic relationship with a with a woman if he was sleeping in my bed He would fuck me basically is what he's saying. Okay Okay Yes, and and yeah, so that's a touch rapey Yeah, I think we can agree on that um His appeal is really what gets me. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I got taken over by my emotions Please unban me and I will make it worth Thanks fellow amaranth fan What does that mean? I will make it worth I don't know I will make it worth like what Amaranth i'm kind of thinking so we can go through this but i'm kind of thinking like i'm noticing like maybe a need for some basic education here about managing your emotions and and what's okay and not to say and if you like someone and and Because I think when he says give it in my eyes I mean, I I know that we can always jump to the cooming but I would I really think what he's looking for is an image of u.n.s fan banging Mm, because that's maybe a translation barrier, you know like a language barrier Well, I mean, I think it would be nice to give them the benefit of that By the way, the reason I thought the other guy was uh, I assume it was a dude um was An older age is because he used capital letters uh and punctuation Right, which generally speaking, you know the the youngins Don't really do that as much I I don't know. I don't know though. But I mean, I think I think the You know I I don't know dude. I don't know about this one because I I do think the rapey vibes is kind of Yeah Yeah, so deny. I think so I guess so I I'm gonna reply to him not worth Oh ouch I would be careful about that Really? Yes How would you what would you say? um, so Okay, so i'm not an expert here but So generally speaking like if if a person is like making You know threatening statements. You don't want to overreact to that and you don't want to underreact to that But you also don't want to do something or just the way that I work I mean you you know your community way better than I do you you're way more successful as a streamer than I am So take this with a grain of salt, but I think that just because they behave out of line doesn't mean that you want to hit back Right so like when you're doing that you're kind of like women approach Cautious you're taking the real life woman approach to creepers be cautious because you don't want them to follow you to your car Sure, that's not the approach that I was taking but thank you for educating us I think that makes sense but I I think it's just more about like, you know, just because they make I mean He's saying something inappropriate and then you're going to insult him which is like fine from uh, you know Like this is the internet and like don't dish it if you can't take it Which I sort of get I get that I get that that's sometimes like you have to display your power and put people in their place But generally speaking I try not to give into those feelings Gotcha. So is there something that you think we could say that might make him think about the next time he engages with a woman on twitch? Yeah, so I think that that I actually really like because I I know it sounds kind of weird But I think a lot of these people who say inappropriate things. I do think they need help and I think they need education So like let's just think through this for a second. If you had said not worth What is that going to encourage him to do with other female streamers on twitch? I don't think he's going to learn his lesson. It's just going to piss him off. Right? Probably. He's like i'ma show that bitch What i'm worth? Right, right Right, like seriously, maybe it'll make him gift 100 subs to prove me wrong. We don't know, you know, that's a Yeah, that that I can't I don't i'm not very good at soliciting donations or subs and my team has been trying to get me to do that for like two and a half years and I just don't know how to do it properly, but I would say this is the kind of thing that it's like, you know Your your quote gives us off rapey vibes and that's really not acceptable on twitch like twitch is a place where like We can have fun, but that crosses the line Now But i'm going to defer to you because if that doesn't feel right, you know Please don't do that to other people and like please recognize that Your words have meaning and you are an important part of the twitch community But that's not nearly as fun i'm with you in terms of not worth is way more Exciting entertaining and emotionally Engaging it makes for better content So I told him your chat history gives us a bit of entitled rapey vibes So maybe consider this type of wording when engaging in other chats in the future I think that's maybe reconsider. That's a better word. Yeah, I think that's uh, Well said emranth very eloquent. Here we go. Okay Now we are on guy donnie Riddle me this amaranth. I am inside of your home Yeah, so that's like straight up stalking right yes um I I don't see I don't understand why people like to pretend that they're stalkers Yeah, what do you what do you think what I mean what is there to be gained Uh, that's a good question A band well, yeah, but Let me let me think about that what is there to be gained so This is you know, so it's it's fine that this person gets banned. But I think that if we look at like People oftentimes test limits and test boundaries, right? They want to see like what's okay to get away with And they want to be maybe a little bit edgelords. They want to be Cool. They want to They want to get so oftentimes they'll they'll do things like this to get noticed Attention, right? So like they they want I mean we saw so there was an interesting post Recently on our subreddit about someone who's like I am an internet troll and I don't know how to stop Mm-hmm. I just feel seen I feel heard when like I can like when there's a streamer that's that has 10 000 viewers and they respond to my comment like I'm at the top of the list of 10 000 So I think there's a lot. I mean we can't read. I mean so much hypothesizing into so little information, but I think there's it's first of all completely acceptable to set sort of boundaries on What is acceptable communication and what is not acceptable communication, but what pushes people to do this? Why do I don't know that people pretend to be stalkers. That's just what they're that's just the manifestation My guess is that they want to be noticed Right kind of like when the kid in class acts up to get attention of the class Yeah, and then teacher and and oftentimes the kid who acts up doesn't quite know what drives them to act up They just know that they Need to be you know, they act up Right and and I think that it's also probably an important lesson to learn that like stalking is not okay And joking about stalking like like certain behaviors are not okay and certain behave like Joking about certain behaviors is also not okay. Like stalking is not okay. Joking about stalking is not okay You know Sexual assaulting people is not okay. Joking about sexually assaulting people is not okay Smurfing in dota or league of legends is not okay. Joking about smurfing about dota or league of legends is not okay right, there are certain things that societally we just set limits on and you know But smurfing is the kind of thing that we you know, let people joke about What is smurfing exactly? so if i'm Well a couple of things so generally it's like when you're if you're a high-skilled boy So generally it's like when you're if you're a high-skilled player and you have like a high rating And if you go into matchmaking you get matched against other players who are like high skill and so What tends to happen is like eventually you're going to start like you're going to kind of get to a 50 50 win rate And you don't win very much or you win half the time And so what people will do is they'll create new accounts and they'll go into players with they'll go into Games with like newer players or worse players and they'll just dumpster all over them So they'll just like crush noobs and they should be playing It's kind of like if I you know, if I go wrestle a three-year-old it's like yeah, I can win but You know, it's not really but some people like the feel of winning and so they smurf I see we're learning new things. You're learning about cooing. I'm learning. Yes This is gonna be a wonderful exchange of information We're both going to be learning about things that everyone in both of our chats already knows a ton about We're gonna be the only ones learning here today I let my chat vote on this one though. They say they want to keep him banned and so I think we should tell him Stalking slash pretending To be a stalker is not okay If you wanted attention So, okay before before you do that, can we read the person's um Reasoning. Oh, it is appeal. Yes. Yeah. So hey, yeah Is it hey, I did not realize that I would get banned for this This is my first time in the chat and I am incredibly not sober I would like to request a second chance at life. What do you think about that part? I am incredibly not sober Um, I don't think it's good to blame alcohol or drugs for Acting out. I think that you have to be responsible for your actions just like in person if you punch someone while you are drunk You are still responsible for punching them um Yeah, that's what I think about that and also the request a second chance at life Leads me to believe that he doesn't take it seriously or see what was wrong with what he said Yeah So I I first of all completely agree with your first statement that I think the decision to use substances does not make you Immune to the behavior afterward or like it does not absolve your responsibility afterward So I don't think that's an excuse and oddly enough, I think you would be reinforcing the wrong things by unbanning him Because actually interestingly enough the signal that you would be sending Is oh by the way, if you blame drugs chances are punishments will be removed Right oddly enough. This is one of the cases where I think what he says makes me less likely to want to unban him Right appeal indicates and he's trying to get a pass And then if you unban him What we're actually going to be teaching him is oh by the way, if you blame the drugs stalking people is okay Right, you can get a pass for that sort of thing Yeah, I agree By the way chat, I just tweeted so please go like comment and retweet i'd appreciate it. Um, I think we're gonna deny this guy Okay, and Ellen that stalking slash pretending to be a stalker is not okay if you wanted attention you could have Made actual funny comments in the chat Or subbed for free with twitch prime Okay, bye so next up inage Let me see Uh, I think this is also in response to espen being here They said yes, he's her boyfriend And then um his appeal is I hate you mods I don't really think that should have been banned um I agree Interesting that anytime that a male is on my stream They there's people in chat who will assume it's my boyfriend Even when I had my like 50 year old uncle on my stream with me. They assumed it was my boyfriend um How does that make you feel? I was about to ask you how that makes you feel but I don't know if we want to go there Like I feel it doesn't like make me feel anything about me. It's more of I question The fact that they can't handle men and women being in the same room together without being in an intimate relationship And that's strange to me I'm wondering why so many people seem to be like that. I don't know if it's a cultural thing or if it's an immaturity thing um Well, I mean I I think and and let me know if this is a little bit out of line, but I think that You know you do have a a sexual undertone to a lot of your streams And so I wonder if they're kind of reading too much into that I don't think that that makes it acceptable by any means um But I think you I I wonder if I wonder if those two things are related Like I have to think that you attract a certain kind of goomer. Let us say Mm-hmm But But this isn't just a my chat issue I see this all the time But this isn't just a my chat issue I see this all the time on uh, like male streams too if there's a female on They'll be like are you fucking? So that's a really good point. So then I think maybe it doesn't have anything to do with you and it has more to do with twitch chat um I'm not sure though. I I don't know like so that when I get a question like Yeah, so do you think the first ban was appropriate or? I don't actually think this should have been banned. I think a timeout would have sufficed Yeah, so it seems like they timed out and then banned Mm-hmm So how does that what what do you think happened there does that does did someone In this case, I think it could have been a misclick like a double thing because it was literally like the same second Okay, so and then then what i'm curious about is their response their reason to Get unbanned as I hate you mods What do you yeah, there's no mod comment. So I don't think it was like a ban evasion situation um So are you thinking unban? I think we can unban and be like Just just a bit of advice the way to get unbanned is to not tell the mods you hate them Sure, typically Yeah, and and I don't know about this. Why do they have to why do people make comments? so I wonder if like some of it, uh amaranth is like um Just you know if you tell twitch chat not to do something The first thing they're going to want to do is do it Right like So I wonder if there's just sort of this thing where like you've you've set a very clear boundary And you've made it very clear that you can have platonic relationships with people And that like that's actually like important and acceptable and should not be frowned upon And some people really take issue with that it really like bothers them in some way If we really want to get into it I mean, I think some of this is because they themselves have trouble having platonic relationships so they can't imagine that that's possible for other people Um, right, so I think people oftentimes judge others based on What goes on in their head? So if I lust after every single woman i'm ever in a room with including 50 year old Family members then what i'm going to naturally assume is that's what other people are doing um and so You know because it's kind of like so I ran into this problem many many years ago with my wife We're like, I don't care too much about occasions but she does so for me, it's like not that big of a deal if like I'm celebrating my birthday on my birthday or a week later like it's you know, the the day doesn't mean much to me But for her it does mean something so like to do things properly like kind of on that day is important right, um and so in that same way like it took me a while to realize like when I didn't do something on her birthday like like she was very hurt by that because When she does things on my birthday, like she puts a lot of meaning and effort into it And so i'm wondering if that's kind of the same thing where these people just don't believe that Platonic relationships are possible if you're sexually frustrated at home And have trouble engaging with women in a platonic way and and that also results in you having trouble seeing them as human beings because you don't have female friends then you kind of sexualize them and then you kind of like You know it like becomes a vicious cycle where since you're sexualizing women you can't have friends since you don't have friends You don't know how to humanize women and then you sexualize them and then they show up in your chat Yeah How is that for an answer It's sad Yeah, so I think that you know, we can teach people hopefully we can help people like learn how to be friends with people of the opposite Gender or same gender for that matter That's true Yeah, we don't judge here So unbanned right? Um, I think I kept them bad. Oh you oh you kept them Wait, no, no, no, maybe I didn't ban I think I didn't ban that was the one the mod ban too fast Yeah, yeah, i'm i'm i'm gonna ban behind still. Yeah, we unbanned that one. Okay, so Bar-barov Nizza, this is a new person now. Yes, let's do it Okay Okay If you want you can read it out. I have to send a message quick. Yeah, I can read it out And i'm sure this will get clipped. I'm not a simp I just came to realize that kate is a good person who is actually really cool in life. So stop hating her You are all so you're all just jealous kate. You were so beautiful Yo Uh Yo english only match phrase group three do amazon cosplay Blocked language detected And then I know y'all can't see this yo, yes baby. Oh jesus, why doesn't he invade her? I'm confused the s finn sleep stream Why doesn't he invade her? Okay And then the the reasoning that they provide is what is wrong with what I said if I were in the same bed with you baby You would be getting it in your mouth and stomach I This is so bad, bro It's so don't be so sexist. It is natural that men want to have sex with you and imagine it. Are you? Are you guided by men's desire towards you and yet you show your booty to the world? I'm not going to read that next part and I like you babe, but don't be a hypocrite Okay, so what I was like looking through stuff and was like yeah, this is bad this is the kind of stuff I was reading Yeah um what So i'm still confused about why the person got banned in the first place I'm not He said oh jesus. Why doesn't s finn invade her while they're in her bed? That part I understand but they were getting timed out and stuff before that um This is a bot timing out foreign language Okay, so this is this is a bot Yeah for either spam or foreign language. Okay, so it's not the top stuff. It's not i'm not a simp. I just came I'm not a simp. It's like banned Yeah, I just came to realize that kate is a good person who is actually really cool in life That doesn't I is that bad? I don't even know what they're talking about. No, those are fine. That's fine. Okay, that's fine. Um Um Yeah, it's it's more of like The appeal is very well the reason why band is yikes and the appeal makes it even worse Yeah, I think the appeal is way out of line. So just to be clear like You know, I don't think So this guy's talking about what is what is offensive about someone's desire towards you? And and you know, this could be another place where maybe i'm incorrect or overstepping but I don't think desire is wrong No presumptions on desire or implying that other human beings don't have a choice in the matter Or I think entitlement is the issue here to other people's bodies without consent Yes, completely agree Desire is just you know, people desire all kinds of things. I want a cupcake But you know, I don't get to eat it if it's someone else's Or even I don't have to give into it even if it's my own cupcake Exactly So I think this is a pretty clear deny, right? Oh, absolutely Yeah That's been to me. That's been the clearest one that we've looked at so far Have we looked at something that you think is clearer than that No, this is this is the worst one so far. I'm sure it'll get it'll probably get worse But this is the worst one so far. Yeah Should we move on then or do you want to talk about this more? No, I think I think everyone here this one isn't too hard to analyze. It's just very uh, rapey vibes Okay All right next what what did I miss something I'm just reading that first message of the next one. Uh I have small shmeet and will any girls still let me tap? Will any girls still let me tap Is it the motion of the ocean or the size? Please I need answers. Please help me I have a girl in the bag. Do I try to tap or do I just talk because my shmeet is small. This is urgent I'm confused and then he goes on and he escalates to to just spamming a whore And then his appeal is thought thought thought thought thought thought now, what do you think drives individuals to behave this way? Uh, hold on. I'm just trying to understand what the person is saying Can can you help me understand that first sentence? I have small small shmeet. Will any girl? I think he says he has a small penis Okay And girl tap means still let me fuck it is intercourse Yes tap is intercourse Is it the motion or of the ocean or the size? and this is referring to how um important The size of the penises in terms of intercourse, okay And then please help me I have a girl in the bag What does that mean? Is that like a abduction? It still means he's dm'ing a girl and he doesn't know if he should Make plans to hook up or just talk to her because he doesn't know if she would want to hook up with his small penis Okay Yeah, so let's pause here for a second so so far Uh, I mean, I guess this guy is just trolling right? Uh, I like, you know, like I don't think but I've I've met some guys who are actually concerned about their small penis. So Yeah, but I mean is this the way that you express concern about your small penis? Do you do it on twitch chat? Um, I mean I could see it reasonably if you consider the the type of Person who might use twitch chat for this kind of question They probably are on the computer a lot inside without real social skills and feeling insecure And watching a lot of porn where angles could look like all guys have a big dick and that's actually not true But they don't know but they're insecure Okay, so i'm i'm learning a lot like so also from chat that I guess maybe people are Like serious about this stuff, right? So maybe they're pretending to be trolling but deep down. They're actually like looking for an answer Like they're actually looking for some kind of like validation or comfort or reassurance that even if you have a small penis You can engage in a healthy relationship Exactly. Yeah, and we think that that's going on here Instead of the person trolling It could go either way chat, what do you think let's do a poll And then I think after that when when he just starts Saying horror horror horror horror horror that actually implies to me that maybe there is a legitimate Feeling or concern here on the part of the person not to say that their behavior is appropriate But that maybe this isn't a troll Of the person not to say that their behavior is appropriate But that maybe this isn't a troll because usually when trolls get called out they don't respond so It's more like can't you take a joke I was joking long As opposed to in this case it might if he does have a small penis and he actually is insecure about it I could see how he could project his insecurities onto people over the internet By calling them names I mean, so I think this is kind of like the way that this person responded by being toxic and also their ban appeal is thought thought thought thought thought Which by the way, I do know what that means So I i've learned you know that one. Yeah, I know that one. Yeah, I mean I think so this one it doesn't get on band, right? Uh, no, we're not gonna ban it. Yeah, and then I think the other thing is um, just from a medical perspective like I think that uh A couple of just like medical facts but what A medical perspective about the small penis. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Keep going um, so if You know, I think that if you look at healthier healthy sexual relationships, they can be like very varied I mean if we you know For example lesbians have healthy sexual relationships with no penises True, um, and so there's just a you know, there's a lot of options out there So I don't think that a small penis necessarily precludes you right you can always use a strap on over your small penis. It's fine I wasn't necessarily thinking that but um You know, I think that just just to remember like i'm like seriously like there's you know there's a lot of different ways that people can engage in healthy sexual relationships and if you've got A partner and if you have an insecurity like a healthy sexual relationship is actually a wonderful way to overcome an insecurity Right, you can just share like everyone has things that they're insecure about And it's okay to like have those insecurities and treat people with respect and like give them the chance like don't You know, don't make decisions for them. So if you have a small penis and you're out there and you're thinking oh The person that i'm talking to would never be interested in me because of my penis like that's their choice, right? They get to make that judgment They get to make that decision about Whether they want to engage with you or not and if you assume that That's a deal breaker then like you're not even giving other people a chance to accept you And if you don't give other people a chance to accept you then like of course you're going to become resentful and feel Unaccepted because you're not giving people a chance to do that True 100% Um Do you have any thoughts on the matter it's not a troll it's just because we're both talking about A lot of guys also Are not realizing what the average penis size actually is Um, especially in america, it's like four to five inches and I think a lot of guys assume that just because other men Say they're like nine inches online that that means they're small when in reality You know people just aren't actually that big on average Yeah, I think there's also I remember learning it's been a while since I took Anatomy, but if you actually look at um The nature of the nerve endings in the female genital area the most concentrated nerves are actually like towards the front or the outside and then Inside the nerves are like Different so you have a lot more light touch And other kinds of like nerves that are very very sensitive on the outside, which is like So that's sort of you know Whether you're four inches or eight inches I can't really attest to this but anatomically there's more Sensation so even with a small amount of inches I think you get a lot of sensation and obviously the clitoris is on the you know on the outer part Right, which is oftentimes what you need to stimulate to achieve orgasm And yeah, if if people know where that is the dick isn't as important as far as the size goes Yeah, and I think studies show that I want to say like 50 to 70 percent of women are Maybe not capable. I'm a bit rusty on the statistics, but are not capable of achieving orgasm through penetrative sex right um That's true. I'll have to find a reference anyways Right, and and then there's lots of jokes about does that mean that people aren't doing it right or what? I actually don't know I i'm gonna have to look into that And double check the science No, it's not about right. It's just that's not as sensitive for women Yeah the inside Yeah Yeah takeaway is that you know if you have a small shmeet as this person put it don't Assume that you can't have a fulfilling romantic or sexual relationship That's right That turned out wholesome It did it did Now the calling people whore and thought that's that's all yeah, I think projection of those same insecurities Yeah, I don't know exactly what that is I mean, I think sometimes we like to call it projection, right? So like I can get behind why we say that but sometimes I don't know like sometimes I feel like in psychiatry We attribute everything to like psychological stuff instead of just people not being good people Right like good and evil has left the textbook of mental health And sometimes I do believe that you know, there's like mental health aspects But sometimes i'll like work with patients who are just me like it's not It's not because they were abused. It's not because They're you know, sometimes people are just like choose to do bad things um And and I um, yeah, I think I think we can tell him though a good note is it's okay to be small You aren't lesser just because you think your penis is a smaller than average size What that's very wholesome and also You're you can't get unbanned if you call people whores and thoughts. That's what you should be ashamed of. Yes So how is this y'all? Like I this was very different from I don't know what I was expecting but like, you know Um We did a ban appeal stream some time ago, but I think we also like engaged with the people who we banned So we actually had them on and and kind of talked to them and had a conversation with them and stuff Which i'm not so sure that that's doable in a situation like this Um I I do think though that like so what I what I like about what we're doing right now is that So I don't think we talk enough about Banning I think that banning is like not a perfect system by any means and that we could do a better job at it My biggest complaint with banning people is that I don't know that there's any kind of substantive feedback given to people And so then like the concern that I have is like on the internet, um You know like you can ban someone but I don't know that it necessarily changes their behavior in a positive light And when I think about like so if we look at it from like basic principles of psychology like why do we punish people? So some of it is like kind of this eye for an eye karmic kind of like this person has hurt someone so you deserve to be hurt but I tend to really find that the the main reason for punishment is to alter behavior Like that's what I believe I guess or believe in maybe is a better way to put it The reason that you know, you administer a punishment to someone is to alter behavior ultimately And and oftentimes it you know in situations where there's a power dynamic. It's actually to instruct So like you're trying to teach someone so if I you know, if I get upset with you and I yell at you like like that's not I mean, I don't think that's a good example But if we really look at like the goal here is like we're not trying to take people who misbehave on the internet and like Radicalize them further or build more resentment which if you look at some of the ban appeals language, right? Like this is where People are just resentful And then I think amaranth is right. They're gonna go to another Like they're just gonna show up somewhere else on twitch should we keep going? Yeah, have you read any of this one yet? Uh, no Okay, okay Okay Um, we can start on she needs to lose some weight. Her tummy is growing You've been gaining weight. You need to stop are all americans in bread It's a shame your fat and a rank rangga, I don't know what that is. Does anybody know? I don't know what a ring is either Okay Unbending surely is their appeal i'll donate 100 if you unbend, please Chat what is a ring? A redhead? Oh chat saying it's a redhead Wait, so it's a shame your fat and a ringa Yeah So he's saying that I have Red hair like in orangutan Oh, wow, how creative Okay What a shame and so so if we go through this What's the difference between your free only fans? Okay, and premium one put clothes on Got timed out needs to lose weight tummy is growing You've been gaining weight. You need to stop Bullying that makes sense and then fat and ranga Uh, so clearly they don't actually hate me because they want to be unbanned and want to donate money or at least Oh, I wouldn't assume that they do I wouldn't assume that that people Won't donate just because I don't think you can necessarily draw 100 parallel between people donating and liking you or hating you I think that's true. Sometimes when I have my chat in sub mode people will sub to insult me. Yeah, so I think sometimes There's a certain power dynamic and almost dehumanization when you're the one who's got the money And oftentimes that hatred comes with that exercising of the power dynamic I see. Yeah, I used to joke about that in my interviews like with anthony padilla and vice is that streaming? Is actually just being insulted for a living That's brutal Yeah brutal um At least for a lot of females. I don't know if males get as I assume males get insulted too, but probably not in the same Like like a sexual undertone horror type ways, you know, yeah, I mean I think even undertone is An understatement there. I think a lot of times the the toxicity is a lot more overt towards female streamers But yeah, I mean, I I don't know that I mean maybe they are i'm just not that familiar with it. But generally speaking I think that The kinds of insults I imagine must be different and the kinds of toxicity that people face must be different Yeah, 100 Like I know train wrecks gets people saying chicken legs, even though he has very swole calves I think people just like to insult but definitely that's not as toxic as like this kind of thing Yeah So, I mean I think that the the needing to lose weight and tummy is growing and you've been gaining weight You need to stop like that's very those are very cruel and hurtful things to say. I almost think that those are worse than whore That's true because a lot of people Have those actual real insecurities about their appearance, you know, I I detect more malice from these kinds of statements as opposed to just like Roling, yeah, just like reflexive like i'm gonna toss out misogynistic comments versus like I want to really make you feel bad about yourself and i'm saying this to hurt you right I I also think this is another case where I mean, what are you thinking here? um I'm not really sure like what makes people be toxic towards others I assume it must be unhappiness in their own lives because happy people just don't say these things to each other Yeah, I I think that's oftentimes true Um Are you thinking about banning or unbanning or what like I'm thinking stay banned. I think so too and I think that too is the kind of thing where um, I think if you unban they're gonna attribute it to the hundred dollar donation Right, and then I think while it may be financially lucrative to do that um I think it sets the wrong message and teaches the wrong lesson, which is that I can buy my way out of Bad behavior, right Which unfortunately is sometimes true What would you say is a good lesson for him to take away if we were gonna Besides like of course insulting others is never okay. But I mean, I feel like that part is common sense Yeah, no, I don't think it's it's insulting I think actually the lesson to take away is that like your words can actually hurt people and this is not a community where like We don't want to Support a community that has people being malicious towards each other and trying to hurt each other Right, so like think about You know, like I I don't know. I mean I feel this may be this it may be weird coming from you but like You know, I think this is the kind of thing where I think everyone needs to understand And by weird coming from you what I mean is that you have a particular way of language Which is just different from the way that I speak So I even even when you translate my words or you know when you take away it What i'm saying and kind of inject what you put into it. I think that's wonderful But I think that this is where just in general like my thought is that I don't think people realize that they have a responsibility on the internet Right, and and if there's some way for him to come and assuming it's a him once again What Life saver just cheered 10 000 bits And said thank you for pointing out unacceptable behaviors. Never let them get to you Wow, jeesh, that's so wholesome Yeah, so I think signaling to them in some way that you know, you have a responsibility on the internet And that your actions matter True and that like money You know, you may be able to buy your way out of unbanned sometimes but like that's not really making the world a better place like you being an asshole and hurting people and then paying money to Get them to forgive you is not That's not helping anyone I don't know how else to put it I agree All right. Next one. All right. Next one. Let's go. Where is minecraft? Please. May I buy your bath water kind woman? Yo, this was this was 2021. This man was ahead of his time. Yo, what up guys? Hello gorgeous Down bad deluxe What arian hype is that like the the the nazi thing? I don't know why this person was banned. I don't understand what I need this stuff means I'm assuming it is I don't unless it's a different spelling. Oh, yeah. Yeah it is. Okay. Well that one we can just deny because racist I Don't know I don't know I know this sounds kind of bizarre but arian is also a like it's a name in my culture So I I have no idea if this is a misspelling if this is racist it could be it could be a different It could be a name two letters mixed It could also be like ryan with a type I I don't know right I could be reading I think I read it wrong Right, I could be reading I think I read it wrong it's it's the racist one is a ryan. Yeah, but even a ryan is a name in indian culture So it's like like in you know, so I I I have no idea. I don't know how to interpret this. So my chat is saying that um, this spelling is a turkish drink I've never had this on my stream. So now I don't know what the context is Yeah, so that that's my point is that it's not they didn't say Difficult, uh If we also look at the the history of what this person is saying Yeah, yo, what up guys? Hello gorgeous. Ha ha ha like Where's mine? So I think this is a unban Okay. Okay. That's true That's true And eo so it's not it's not a typo because they even said in their ban reasons, right? They said banned for a ran hype Let's go So I I think if it was a typo they would have spelled it right the second time, right? So they're just referring to something else. I also wonder is this is this just something we can Hold on. I don't know what is going to happen to my cookies if I do this but You're gonna search it. Yeah, so like look There it's just a drink How to make okay Okay, so so I I mean as as much as we want to be You know Anti-nazi Which I think I think we don't we don't we don't want and my mod probably both misinterpreted it Yeah, we don't we don't want our own racism Right to ban people right who are Not racist right Right, that makes sense So yeah, I think that's an unban So instead I will write turk bar me which I think means any turks here And um a heart the turkish people are probably my biggest percentage of audience Really? I don't know But maybe hornhub's ban in turkey, so i'm just assuming all right sin unban decision Okay next up We've got dylan shoots Which says yeah for sure dog shit, I don't even know why this was banned. I don't know either This was 2019 when stuff is this old and especially if there's no context I just unban because I I don't know Yeah, I that doesn't make any sense this person was Maybe a mistake possibly They last typed in your chat in 2019 Yeah, because that's when they got banned so that's when they got banned Yeah, they can't type if they get you know, they get banned So it says uh this chat history and he's banned a second later. So the person is is now applying for an unban three years later Yeah, which is weird you would think that he would have maybe he took a hiatus from twitch who knows, okay who knows Um, I don't know who nicky poo is but I mean, I don't know either Well, if he if he comes up and unban then we'll know he cares, too. All right Bonebreaker So when do you plan to throw that food back up your fat fat girls shouldn't eat? Why do you ban me for promoting healthy lifestyle where i'm from in france you american girls are massively overweight due to mcdonald's They have mcdonald's in france and while already being overweight. She eats in the middle She eats in the stream girls watching will think that That in public is okay, it's not okay to act like a hungry hippo in front of men First of all, I don't understand this whole, um Charade that some people have with calling People who aren't fat fat and even if the person is fat, what does it concern you? Yeah, I don't understand that at all. But this this seems like a toxic Shit toxic piece of shit, um, we won't tell him that though because we are kind and respectful here No, I mean so it's it that right, right? So if we like think about it, right? It's okay for us to have a reaction To what the person says? But then we also want to like acknowledge that that's a reaction and we don't have to give in to that reaction Right. Um, but I mean, I do think that the the person first of all doesn't seem So i'm not sure that unbanning this I think unbanning this person will reinforce the wrong behavior because they're doubling down in their unbanning appeal, right? So She eats on stream like that's totally fine. Like you're allowed to eat on stream. It's not against TOS Um Girls watching this will think that eating like that in public is okay. That's something that we want more of good job Right, like we want women to feel like it is acceptable to eat in public Yes And it's not okay to act like a hungry hippo in front of men. That is where I beg to disagree I think you should act like a hungry hippo if you want to In front of men in front of women you can act like a hungry hippo if you're feeling a hungry hippo And so I think that person stays banned agreed agreed Because I just told him that I will eat whatever I want whatever I want I ate your dad's dinner last night and i'll do it again hungry hungry hippo. I'll be all four hippos because there are four in that game What is the dad's dinner that's because I I wrote I ate your dad and I paused And I kept type it was for chats entertainment. Okay. I was kind of confused about what that meant, but I ate your dad's dinner I just don't know. I gotta say amaranth. I can't keep up with Honestly, like the stuff that worries me the most is like sexual because some things that are sexual are just They're just so like you can't even connect the dots Like when I first heard kumer, there's this thing called a main koon cat Right. It's a kind of cat And that's just what I thought of kumer c o o m e r like to kum it's like a I get it spelling come I get it I figured it out. I don't need that. Okay I appreciate it though. I mean, you know, because nine times out of ten I'm gonna need that level of detail. This just happens to be the one one time where i'm able to connect the dots but Okay Okay, so moving on this next one Nice xqc clickbait stupid whore. I'm not sure what this even meant I don't understand what that means either. I I don't know. I didn't have xqc in my title. So i'm not sure Um, you know calling you a whore is not okay Calling you stupid is not okay Also in their appeal reason they said I said it and I meant it. I feel like it's pretty fair So they don't seem yeah, they don't seem very uh apologetic Yeah, so I think the person you know, i'm not seeing any reason to unban them No, i'm not either and I don't think they expect to be unbanned to be honest from their appeal. That's a really good insight So to them i'm just going to say Oh, which is so interesting, right? Xqcl is all I will say what does that mean? That's one of xqc's emote with a heart. I see Yes, um I'm just a little bit curious though. If the person isn't expecting to get unbanned and you unban them, what would that do? um I'm not sure What's your question? Well, maybe we'll find out a different one Um, okay, let's go So she's been streaming for eight hours. So the wisdom uh, tet wisdom tet. Yo that Dude that said it's heaven just shut the fuck up. I don't know what the context is here. Wait Is she getting held against her will? She said i'm sorry in a whisper Sounds like it sounds like craziness um Something about iowa Not iowa. Oh, maybe I was playing geoguessr here That would make sense if I was playing geoguessr Yeah, so then it goes I'm a head out. Good night I'm a head out. Good night send hep dang the only fans downbads Or only fans. I don't know what that means um Yeah, I don't know either it's crazy. Uh, somebody asked for her o f and I checked the the links I just stated down bad Okay, so this man is saying he's down bad and I personally don't see an issue with that I think that it's okay to be down bad Um, so i'm going to unban and say it's no crime to be horny I don't know what that what does down bad mean does that mean bad means it's basically horny. It's basically um See, this is what i'm saying like like down bad doesn't there's no there's no Down is a direction bad is the opposite of good Like I don't know. Yeah, where do people even come up with this? Yeah, I don't I don't know But it it sounds like you feel okay that this is yeah, I don't think they said anything toxic. Um Yeah, I think they're okay. Okay Yeah kids these days, so be it Exclamation mark social exclamation mark youtube. Those are fine. Are your boobs fake? Obot got him and then he says hey if you guys are looking for pokemon card giveaways check out Poker lucas very good deals now. I don't think this should have been banned I know why my mods timed it out because um, it is technically self-promotion of another stream But I think that could have just been a timeout and he seems fairly innocent So for that, I think I will unban. What about the boobs fake comment? I mean, he's just curious that there's no harm in being curious. However, maybe just chill Interesting so so can I? Just ask you about that for a second About about which part about about your response and the way that you handle people asking if the boobs are fake Thank you It's a compliment I'm flattered. So do you do you think that's an acceptable question like What your personal threshold is it sounds like you're okay with it? I don't think it's appropriate to ask people that but I also know online people tend to gravitate towards the anonymous aspects and feel way more bold than they do in person and I don't think it's always ill intent. I think people often just word vomit what they're thinking in their minds without filtering it Yeah, that's that's really interesting. I've never Most people i've talked to would be very very offended by that Uh, but you know, it's it's really interesting To hear you sort of think about it almost as like curiosity because like i'm also like kind of Wondering right? So if i'm a 14 year old kid on the internet How on earth am I ever supposed to know what's real or fake and like how right where do you learn that? True, right? And if we're you know Yeah, so that's that's really interesting i'm gonna have to really think about that a little bit more but I really appreciate that perspective Yeah, I think it's normal um Cool worries, so unban no worries Uh, I I think he's okay. Okay Oh, this one is interesting shut the fuck up you ugly bitch suck my dick and what we find interesting is the appeal We'll get to a chat if you're afk and just listening you can suck my dick shut the fuck up and then his appeal is You wasn't talking to you Um What So, I don't know is so this is the other problem with some of these is You wasn't even talking to you Like the letter u And then the problem is that I don't even know. Is that a typo? Was it I wasn't talking to you like he wasn't talking to me? But then the other question is well, who would he be talking to? When the other question is you and the I are right next to each other on the keyboard Right, so that that's where that's where you know, is a ran a drink or is it a nazi? Is it a misspelled nazi? right, you know race kind of thing um I I don't know though I mean even if they're not talking so even if they're not talking to you, are we implying that Saying this to someone else is okay That's what I wonder like there I like how they just did not address The uh chat history at all as far as was it right or wrong. They just said I wasn't talking to you Yeah, so then I guess the question is do we want that kind of stuff no, so I think that's Who you're talking to yes well said That's not acceptable to say Next okay So this person was banned in 2019 this is their chat history you guys Hey, what is the song? What is the song? How does it feel to be a stripper for 10 year olds and that was before I had the poll? So I don't know what they're talking about um You are a stripper for 10 year olds you fucking weirdo So you like stripping for kids trash go to my free cams. Stop stripping for children. You fucking pedo They must be irish because they speak just like just a minx with the you fucking you fuck you fucking fuck Okay, um This is an interesting take though, I always find it strange when people say For 10 year olds or whatever because all the 10 year olds I know are watching fortnight in minecraft. So Yeah, I don't I don't think 10 year olds are usually pre, you know puberty hits around 12 13 14. Yeah Yeah, once again like medically it's usually yeah hits Um, so his appeal is sorry I didn't respect that hustle back when I made my previous comments now after seeing amaranth sold farts in a jar for $1,000 I must recant my previous statements. I don't have to like it, but I can respect it How do you feel about that I applaud them. That's the best appeal i've seen all day Why is that the best appeal? Because they respect they respect it now True Thank you i'm on bantam, thank you for that. Thank you for that it's been a few years Yeah You apologized for his comments Yeah, and you respect the hustle Cool Yep Regardless of your personal beliefs because he says I don't have to like it, but I can respect it Well said Yeah, I I really like how you I would not have unpacked all of that that quickly and out of 10 appeal and Amazing I I'm just curious. I'm not going to ask about the farts for a thousand dollars in a jar debating asking about I can send you some jars For the novelty effect just like a little you don't even have to open it You don't even have to open it just like to sit on your little shelf back there as a souvenir So is one of our donation goals No, no, no, no, no, this is for free for free. No, no, I I understand. No, let me finish So we were thinking about donation goals like sub donation goals and one of the donation goals we came up with was Chat gets to pick something that we put on our shelf So like they get to add something like they get to pick something. Oh, I love that and I was thinking like oh, this is this is the um Perfect I've never seen i've never seen the universe come together in so much synchronicity Because I was thinking like what are they well, like what are they gonna like are they gonna do like a lotus or an orchid or like a set of prayer beads or maybe like An incense holder or like a little buddha, but I mean, it's kind of like an incense holder Well, as long as we just don't tell anyone well Okay, I won't tell if you don't that's fine That was hilarious, dude. That's brilliant It is like an incense holder, yeah, but of you know a different kind of you know Flammable fragrance it's yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's fine. Yeah, i'll just have to let me check with my wife first and then i'll you know Oh, of course, of course Maybe it'll be fair as long as we send one for her office, too. Oh sure. Yeah, no problem. Yeah Yeah Easy, okay easy. Here we go. All right moving on Okay, um First is a lot of chat I see we're just gonna start more at the more recent ones chat because if we didn't everyone's in chara chat history We'll never get through these so uh, this guy says Has anyone heard about ukraine and russia and he just got timed out because we don't like politics in our checks It caused a lot of fights. Um, and then he said hi. All you ever do is lick a mic in dying you banned him I don't know. I'm not sure why oh, there's a mod comment. Let's see ban evasion Oh, he was ban evading it seems Okay, wait, how is he ban evading help me understand apparently he had an account before Uh that they realized Because this is now his username and he's gone through the original two three and now four. I see So dj sharper image three and two were the same same incarnates. Yeah, the same person. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so that that's fair Yeah, so that's and also he seems to be negative towards the hustle so we don't like that here We want acceptance and respect Okay Okay, i'm just gonna deny him. I'm not gonna type why Um, okay, so this next person Okay, royal zephyr says free health care I assume he's making fun of america by the fact that doesn't have it because you're probably playing geogaddy Because you're probably playing geogaddy and talking about stuff. Oh, no, it's actually 2018. So it could have been anything who knows um Destroy all liberals he said oh wow Says yeah, I was going through a bin shapiro phase I I don't know what that means I don't I don't either. I don't know what that what what does that mean by a bin shapiro phase chat? I'm actually gonna in this type of circumstances i'll let chat decide but say what you want about it I mean ben shapiro is a conservative comment commentator commenter, right? So, um, but I I would assume I I don't know but I don't know what that has to do with The free health care. I mean destroy all liberals I think sounds Violent That's true that that too is the kind of thing where I don't know like how serious I mean, I don't think they're serious, but like how would you know and You know does right? Right, I don't know. So what does your chat say? My my chat is voting currently to unban chat. If you disagree, I encourage you to vote on the poll right now This is one of the only times you will ever get to make a decision ever in my chat So make sure that you vote right now what you want his fate to be Wow, okay now 51 say ban 52. Okay, so so someone in my chat is saying destroy usually means arguments Oh I don't know destroying the argument. I don't know either. I I don't know Well, 54 percent say ban so we will just deny because he's not contributing any ways to chat Okay, okay Whoops Um, what year was this 2019 she's wearing the same clothes from yesterday, you know, it probably was same clothes never went home lull Those never went home. That means I was at are we doing are we doing? He panhandler. Okay. Yeah. Yeah Same clothing never went home simps staring lull top tier donated there She looks like an escort. I mean, I probably did to be honest. I mean who's to say I still don't but um, This is probably at twitchcon because he's saying security bunch of nerds lull So yeah, this is probably a twitchcon stream But his appeal is good. He says yeah, I was a douche keep doing what you do. It works It's all right if you decide not to unban me, I just want to apologize. Sorry. This was 2019 and he apologized I think we can unban. Yeah, I think so. I I think if it's you know, three years later if he sort of recognizes That he was acting like an asshole Yeah Okay So this is one Scorp zero says suck my dick, please He was timed out so we tried again the next day with the shockingly suck my dick, please again And he got banned and now his appeal chat is I was just expressing my feelings Dot dot dot well I mean, I think that this is where we got to be careful about whether expressing your feelings is an excuse for saying things that are hurtful or Um, you know unacceptable Yeah and I I think it's like something that people will do is sort of a cop-out I don't think that he was actually I mean that sounds like a bs excuse to be but just while we're on the topic He did have one variety where when he said can I fuck you? So we got a little bit variety from the sea of suck my dick, please At least he uses please Yeah, I I guess so I I it was hard for me to see that in with You know with all the other words involved he is asking for consent technically with a please but um, let's educate him though I'm gonna let him know women are like cats. Okay By all means educate me as well. What is yes. Yes. Yes women are like cats If you ask them to do something they won't they don't want to Do But also probably not the best choice To say this to strangers It comes off very entitled and creepy Yeah, I feel like These people need some kind of basic course and like communicating with people Like how to talk to other people? I don't think they would read it is the issue the people who need the help typically aren't aware Of how much they need it Yeah, I mean I can I can see that a lot of times people who are ignorant don't know they're ignorant, but Something tells me that people on People who are behaving like this on the internet probably know that they're not great communicators, right? That's why they're here and Right, it's easier for them Yeah, I don't know Okay, next up Next up Uh, what year was this this is okay. So a few days ago April 27th So that's a nice new profile pick of amaranth the captions are often mishearing what it said when you read the captions So we were watching the johnny depp amber herd trials and the live feed of it The caption was trying to match it and it wasn't doing a great job. So that's what he's talking about there Let's see why he got banned Um We are all human i'm only human after all don't put the blame on me I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know either amaranth found the right outfit to wear. Yay Well delayed on mine lol. Great That bs procrastinator almost an hour of time from you. Wow What kind of bs death threat letters or something we are all human Um He might just be crazy because he says his appeal is rag and bone man human I don't know what that means either. I don't know what that means either, but oh they're saying lyrics to a song It's from a song Oh are these we are all human i'm only human after all and then he's saying the song here maybe oh See, i'll never understand the people that just like quote lyrics randomly with no context in a chat Why was the person banned in the first place do you know I think we just thought he was crazy because he was quoting lyrics out of context And that we didn't know were lyrics Okay I will give him it maybe he was vibing, you know in his headphones and he was just really feeling the moment I'm gonna say unbanned. I'm unbanned I don't if chat knows I can sort of I can sort of get behind that because like, you know Sometimes you're just vibing with a song and you're just singing out loud and if i'm typing on the internet i'll just i i've typed Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's probably what it was Oh i'm banned This person says can you ban me please and because we don't like to get people what they want here Of course mods just merely timed them out ban me I just want you to ban me to see what it feels like when you get banned He's been trying for a while, right? This was uh, so he's been banned since July of last year almost a year now And he says very sorry for being annoying I was passing through a bad moment and I would like to come back to the chat Thanks for reading my silly message English isn't my first language Very sorry if I have spelling mistakes. Okay, I think that's fine. Yeah, I I think it's okay Also, the first reason that they got banned was not that severe, right? Right. They just they wanted to be banned Okay, that's fine Sure, okay Um nice booba dead ass Um, maybe this is a different language not sure no, I think this is internet speak oh Okay Sorry, I have something to say more just in that kind of mood So I just started spamming in the chat. Sorry. Oh, they're saying this is an arab term What is it? The the I don't know how to say it n i k m okay It's a bad word arab. They said okay arab. I don't know how to Arab what about yeah stuff booba nice bad normal chatter stuff That's nice ass and booba is pretty typical um Your your boobs look like the anime ones. Okay. Thank you. I think all right um Chat's saying it's a bad word though in arab, so we're just gonna deny. Okay um moving on Says I hate men and I hate women is the next person I don't hate women. Also, do they hate men? Uh, I don't know I'm so confused So we will deny and put question marks then And uh, oh i'll put quotation question marks I'm so confused and then quoted by dr. K. What about what about What so they say I don't hate women but Um, you uh in there. I think you said is it okay to hate men? That's what my question was. Yeah Um, I don't think it's okay. I mean, you know, everyone has their own reasons but I I wouldn't say hate is worth it for anyone regardless of gender because hate usually only it really affects The person having the hate It's a very strong distracting emotion, right? Yeah, I don't think that your energy should be focused on hating people I think if you don't like somebody you should just remove them from your thoughts entirely or pray for them That's very kind of you Depends on the context Okay, next up Yep Flavor I don't know what why was this banned? I have no idea but the guy just this is probably a misclick to be honest. I'm gonna unban. I think that's a misclick Um Okay Something about this particular word that I think is a misclick That looks sus is the name of polish ice cream I understand that you think I said the n-word. I'm not racist. So i'll never say that I'm also looking at some of the context so it does look like they're talking in a separate language Yes And in this case google has this feature and that's not always accurate But I try if you right click you can it'll show translate to english as an option in the little gray menu that pops up So i'm going to try translating it to english And it says bored as a prick I get the fuck out of here Okay Uh, also it says we because the chick here is about to fuck and you are promoting the league Okay, i'm even more confused than before Yeah, so I did an image search for Ice cream, uh-huh using the letters n-o-g-g-e-r and it it It does appear to be an ice cream oh okay But so unban Maybe I I don't know that that's what's kind of confusing is like I don't know I Don't know man. This is I don't know how to understand I'm just gonna chat this side and in situations where we're unsure I think chat can decide and then it's majority Ruling here. So so my chat is saying it's obviously knew what what they were doing. No don't unbanning. He's dodging to s Well, I would think that too but he typed a few sentences of I assume polish before which makes me think like it's not Just like a one word occurrence. Yeah, so that that was that's what I was kind of thinking too Or whatever like if i'm just like typing in a foreign language Then But a lot a lot of chat seems A lot of chat seems to be, uh Convinced that they knew That they knew what they were doing Chat chat wants to ban him. Okay Chat ruling Good luck in the future Okay, all right Uh This was 2019. They said womp womp womp Wubba wubba wubba womp womp Brrrrkht kha And then a dance game that's my turtle someone pants are on fire it's moin Just look it's got my name on it. Mm. Mm. Hermione fantasies right now. Maybe I was cosplaying not sure Give me my turtle. Oh, this might have been asmr Don't believe or the crackling sound pants are on fire sound probably sound like a fire crackle And then I did cosplay her mayonnaise occasionally in asmr and then we also had a massage turtle Little figure that I would tap And this is also late at night judging by the timestamps. So i'm assuming most of this is responding to asmr sounds Um, don't believe your bigger excuse never made the letter b with your mouth. What does that mean? Oh, that was some controversy when I had braces I slurred words together and I mispronounced A sentence that had no racial context at all and people thought I said the n-word even though it didn't make sense at all yeah so is it am I missing something I don't understand what the what the I'm confused. There was like people were clipping it out of context and we were talking about ramen ne and pocky in a grocery store Being on the ethnic aisle but because and I said they probably have that in bigger stores and people thought because of my slur they thought the word ethnic and then the Bigger part of bigger was the n-word even though we were talking about asian food So it made no sense, but people were still hung up about it. I see so I mean is there something here that's bannable. I'm confused Um I think he was just getting caught up in the drama But it was so long ago that I don't really care and he doesn't don't believe your bigger excuse. I understand now So yeah, they thought that you were intentionally using a racial racial slurred. I did not buy your excuse Yeah, I don't know. Is that bannable or I think we can unban. I think it's stupid Okay All right Let's see, uh, where's the lotion not a great question probably on his desk to be honest Uh step on my marbles you queen. Oh my gosh. I love you And please step on my balls. Maybe that's meant by marbles and ruin my life. I love you so much I just want to feel the pain from you mommy. Whammy That's cringe Yeah, I I don't know man. This this doesn't seem I mean i'm more concerned about this person than I mean I I maybe it's just because we're we've been doing this for a little while or I i'm starting to get kind of numb in my mind. Oh, yeah, that happens after a while. That's what like How do you deal with that, um Yeah, it's difficult sometimes for sure. I think that's part of that. I know our last talk in 2020 I said I feel like i'm losing my personality reading chat so much This is that's a little bit of what I mean. It just built up over years, you know that numb feeling. Yeah It's better now. I don't even know how to So when I look at this like there's a part like i'm like operating on instinct here I'm not at the very beginning when we were looking at appeals I was like really really thoughtful and like looking at each sentence and looking at which letters were capitalized and which ones weren't and like trying to understand age and You know reading into things and at this point it's just like, you know when I see wampi wampi wubba wubba wubba It's like I don't know how many you know is arian Did they mean to say arian? Who knows, you know, like there was a lot of like I I just feel like my mind is getting fried. Like I don't know. I mean how are we going through all these? No, no No, because because I mean this person sounds like they just need help like Which doesn't mean that they shouldn't which doesn't mean that they Shouldn't stay banned Right Right, right, right Like because like just because you need help doesn't mean that you can't do things that are hurtful to people or behave in an unacceptable manner, but you know, like i'm kind of concerned about this person Like i've worked with some people who have strange fetishes and kinks and things like that and and you know sometimes like that comes from a place of psychological hurt or trauma Have you ever had um clients with a ball crushing fetish? Where did that come from? Yeah Where did they say where that comes from for education? So I I think no, I mean, I think it's actually like a good question like it's not I mean i'm not trolling when you ask the question for educational purposes I recognize that could sometimes be used as like a troll kind of comment like yeah Explain to us what kubi is amaranth for education, but no, but I so I think a lot of times people So it can be a couple of different things one is um We have a sense of self-worth Which we want to see and feel heard and noticed but so like if you think about a sexual relationship to feel like To be seen and heard and accepted and noticed for who you are Is related to intimacy, right? um, and so to be vulnerable And so but if if what I am Is something that is like pathetic I also want people to see me as pathetic and so sometimes I can get tangled up into sexuality the other thing to remember is that like What the mind or the brain finds arousing can be heavily shaped So for example like you know in in in Cultures where like particular body parts are covered Those those body parts can be sexual pieces, right? So or sex can be sexually arising but there are other parts of the world where like different body parts are covered And those parts of the body aren't like inherently sexual So the other thing is just we get conditioned to think that certain things are sexual And that's where you know, the worst case is sometimes you'll have kind of traumatic experiences that are sexual in nature, which will also Like get kind of get crosswired in the brain to where people will be like aroused by that kind of situation Um, the point is that it's complicated and no one really knows or at least I don't But i've worked with people like that and I think that's where you know, I think some of it some of it gets better but then the other thing is that we did a stream many months ago about Um bd sm and just how that's probably like just like a normal variant Uh, but there's not a whole lot of research into that But it does appear that you know, some of that stuff is like just a normal variant of sexuality Do they ever say how they get fetishes when you when you have like, um, I guess Consultations with clients. No, it is what it is Yeah, so so people don't get a fetish they have a fetish Right. So it's not like they can trace it back. I mean you may be able to some psychologists or psychiatrists may Hypothesize that we can trace it back to like this is the point that you know, the fetish began But I think oftentimes You know the mind is like more complicated and like this is the moment like if we think about who we are and what we like it's not single moments, it's constellations of experience But I think there's just something that sometimes is like Arousing about being denigrated to some people and then some people also will will literally somehow use pain as like some something gets wired To where that becomes sexually arousing or somewhat of an erogenous zone interesting case I once had someone who was had a partial amputation who um So the interesting thing is our brain has a map of our body called the somatosensory cortex and so if you look at like How much of our brain is devoted to the middle of our back? It's not very much versus our hands and feet are like huge So there's like which is why we're so sensitive there The interesting thing is if you lose a part of your body Sometimes that part of your brain can move to a different part of your body And so it so happened that this person would would get sexually aroused by the touching of their um The stump Because like the part that was their genitals like took over that part of their body It's got uh, sorry took over that part of their brain that used to be their arm Huh? So then you can sort of look at some of these these other kinds of fetishes and things like that that involve Um things like stumps and so there may be some kind of neurological Hypothesis there that's super interesting. Yeah I'm just trying to it feels weird to say but honestly, it's not i'm not trying to be Risk a yeah, no, no, I get it. It's just the body is weird sexuality is weird. It's highly individual It's high highly personalized and we don't really understand how it works most of the time to be honest Yeah, i've i've heard that um a lot of time people who have A foot fetish comes from the placement in the brain where controlling your feet is right next to the sexual arousal section And they like get crossed a bit for some people Yeah, so I also saw something else which I don't know how Real this is but that the neurons from your feet and the neurons especially for women Which I don't know if this is like factually correct or not I mean I saw something about it in a textbook around science, but sometimes they can be wrong So our neurons each have a sheath or covering. So if you think about like a cord, right? It's got like an insulation And if cords weren't insulated signal could transmit from one cord to the next cord And that's something there's somewhere in the spinal cord or spinal tracts where there's a lack of myelination So there's a lack of insulation between feet and some of the genital regions. So the signal from one can kind of jump into the other but based on what I read that's more in the I mean, it's part of the central nervous system, but it's like not in the brain It's like in our spinal cord and some of our more peripheral nerves around the sacrum. So So Like some of our genital nerves and and nerves from our feet they all enter in the in the tailbone So they like all enter the spinal cords. There could be some kind of Unmyelination where a signal can jump Now that doesn't have anything to do with people being aroused by feet that is more about the physical sensation right Well, how I guess what i'm referring to is people who are aroused by other people's feet But we we do have a possible anatomical explanation of why a foot can be an erogenous zone if that makes sense right That's so crazy Yeah, sorry if that's the mind is weird. Yeah, dude. That's not even the mind. That's just the nervous system. The mind is just Then we add psychology on top and it just becomes something completely different Wow anyway And are you going to be leading us through a meditation today? Yes. Yes. Yes. Shall we do a couple more? um Yeah, we can do maybe like three more than we can do some meditation sounds awesome. Let's do it. Yeah I'm very excited about the meditation by the way. Thank you. So yeah, we're gonna be charging our lasers chat. Okay, let's do it Thought you were cooler never coming back by you try really hard. Why you try so hard? And then uh, i'm not sure what they were talking about but I banned them because they were annoying and weird and uh, Then he says please in his appeal I'm confused. What what did this person do that was vaneable? They were just annoying me. Okay Okay It's your chat. They said they were never coming back. So I just helped them not come back But here they are coming back. So I guess it didn't work Yeah Hmm what interesting I I don't I mean if you know, I think it's your chat and you get to do what you want there Generally speaking I i'm just trying to say welcome back. I knew he'd be back Okay That's a nice pair god bless us all Wow, uh more about the nice pair hey sweet lips, it's a nice pair you got there man for a month That's all they could focus on This broad better show her chest soon. He's been waiting like three months or i'm changing the channel Broad better unban me soon or i'm i'm changing the channel Okay So that's What that's a Threat to stop watching your stream. I I guess there's a lot here that feels inappropriate to me. It just feels very disrespectful Oh, yeah also like sweet lips is That's what irks me the most Which one the phrase sweet lips? Yeah, it just sounds that sounds weird, it's like a it gives me the image of like uh, like a 60 year old man Just like hitting on women in a bar calling them weird things like sweet lips. Yeah Yeah, yeah 50s pickup line Yeah broad also Yeah broad. Yeah. Yeah, what does that even I mean, I know it means a woman, but where does that even come from? Like I don't understand I'm not sure where the expression broad comes from It's a good question broad Women definition or I don't know slang. I don't even know what to search for Yeah, I don't know but um I don't know how reputable urban dictionary is this is a term originated in the 1930s Derived from the fact that the most defining characteristics of all females are their hips Which are proportionally wider than the hips of male counterparts. Look at those Broads, I don't know if that is accurate Uh, one person I believe this one more a butcher's term for a slab of meat with a hole in it men use it to classify women One person from my chat is I've read that one more that sounds more accurate is is from the german brout which means bride Oh, there's lots of different I don't know Opinions it looks like but this person is this broad better unban me sooner. I'm changing the channel Go for it change the channel They're not unbanning that okay, uh, okay last one then we'll do some connotation This one I don't understand, um Hola, what is this? See her nips like the middle one and i'm like what do you think I have three tits what's happening the middle one? I'm back. Hello amaranth. Hope you've had a good day. You're crying Hate chats that go so fast. You can't even read anything. Wow Imagine having a girl in your life this dramatic if you're actually sad turn off your stream and go take care of yourself I was just playing Oh, sorry, y'all can't see that but Wow total recall. I don't know. There was three I don't think there was three people I'm this is not this is not my collab day I don't know what but what is Yeah, I don't I mean, I assume that the person is being mean when they say If you're actually sad turn off your stream and go take care of yourself or they actually You know saying like you should like I can see that being interpreted two ways one is like You should you know, take a mental health day and don't stream And but also like the wow imagine having a girl in life. Yeah I don't know if you're aware, but you know women are more emotional than men. So I mean on average We have all these hormones um in cycles Let's see. Uh I'm mostly confused about hope we can see her nips like the middle one I don't know what that means Uh, well, so sometimes people I think can have theoretically I mean, this is something that I saw in a James Bond movie So I don't know if this is medically accurate or not, but people may have a third nipple Oh But I don't necessarily think it means you have a third breast and also it's from a James Bond movie So I don't even know if that's a real thing and you have a third nipple without having a third breast I've never seen one. I have two nipples and I have no breasts. So It's possible to have a nipple without a breast But I don't know about three I have no idea And there are there are rare cases of men being able to lactate if you're a man who's lactating you should definitely go see a Doctor Wait, that's not normal? No, it's it's not normal. It's a sign of potential cancer Oh if you have a man who's lactating, I thought it was just uh a category on the hub. Okay What does that mean a category on the hub? uh the orange youtube the uh The p the p hub Just using lots of phrases, I don't understand But yeah, no, oh that's disturbing I just No, there's there's a thing. There's a kind of brain tumor Called prolactinoma That's not good in which a part of our brain starts secreting prolactin which is prolactin which is the hormone that people who are pregnant I mean Starts to increase in pregnancy and then after you have a child like that's what causes You know because people don't lactate all the time, right? Even if you have breasts and you're a woman So it's the presence of prolactin that does it if you have a prolactinoma sometimes you can get and There's a ton of prolactin in your body even as a male. You'll start to like differentiate some and start to lactate a little bit So you should get that checked out if you're doing that as a man as a public health advisory That's not a troll or a joke or anything like that Okay, it's it's actually terrifying because it's so embarrassing of a problem that people are like Will never you know, yeah, they're embarrassed to go to the doctor for it Because it's like oh my god, i'm a man and Yeah, it's scary. Yeah Good news is it's very operable very easy to remove tends to not Metastasize or get bad or anything like that. You can just take it out. That's great. Yeah, that's good. Got a good prognosis So go get it checked out Okay I let him know I don't know about the third nipple though. That's yeah, I don't know about that one I Think maybe i'm just looking at the next one and i'm okay calling it right here. Yeah. No, we're good. We're good We can move on This is just one of those that I don't know man. I feel like we need like good like Mentorship honestly It's a very It's just a lot of sexual words it's just not And what are we gonna do with these people on the internet I Don't know. Um, we have to figure something out you know It's uh, I just hope they stay on the internet and don't harass women like this in real life Well, I mean, yeah, that's avic Well, I mean, yeah, that's a victory of sorts, but it's just like I I can't think that they're You know, I mean it's like I don't know I mean harassing women in real life is certainly Probably worse than harassing women on the internet, but it's not like harassing women. They're great. Yeah And okay, uh Can you link your meditation? Yes, absolutely logged into twitter. Okay No, um, let me do this real quick. Hold on Okay I will send this. Yeah, we're gonna charge our lasers together Okay, I don't know do you have Uh, i'm gonna message you on discord, okay Okay Do you have access to that? We're gonna be in your middle finger today chat So get them ready get them primed use your twitch prime For free can you can you access that? Uh, let me check Yes, awesome So today this is fantastic I'm so glad you're doing this because I get to meditate and I get to be led through meditation. Oh great I found some meditation music Do you like music when you meditate or do you like silence, uh, I will sometimes listen to music before I meditate to kind of Get me in the mood So in the in the preparatory phase of meditation and then once the the actual meditation begins, then I will not listen to music Gotcha Okay, um So which one is your favorite out of these Uh, so they're of different lengths So you can do charging the laser beam if you want to but I think you're you're a very good Uh, I think the asmr stuff that you do is like really cool so I think actually the space one is like a more visualization heavy one, which I think that Does a lot better with a guide So charging the laser beam is something you can kind of do on your own. The space one is kind of long though um The space dharana I haven't looked at the space one yet. I saw the middle finger and I was like, yeah Okay, we can do the middle finger one then that's actually one of my personal favorites. It's one of the practices that I did a lot Um because it opens up your agna chakra, which is your third eye A lot. It's a big word It's two words, but yeah Agnya Is the first word that means how that's spelled ajna or Agna, but there's a there's like a letter that we don't really have in english, which is like a nya Yeah Yeah, it's like a gyn gyn That's like a that's like a a vagina doctor, right? Huh? No. Well, yeah Gain, so actually it's probably gny is a better way to not Yeah It comes from the throat. It's like yeah Yeah Yeah, hey guys in the chat little anime emotes, yeah Okay, so Let's read what this says chat Okay, so in this practice we will use our middle finger to activate your third eye Do you have a preference of which hand for the middle finger? Uh, dominant less dominant You can okay Yeah So, uh to start this practice off chat close your eyes and sit up straight I can't close my eyes and read so you guys close your eyes Curl in all your fingers except the middle finger Hover it over the center of your eyebrows Does that mean in the middle? Yeah. Yeah, okay. You don't want the finger to touch just hover it right above Yes, if you don't feel anything you can move your finger a little bit closer try to find the sensation Some people describe it as a warmth or pressure or charging your laser beam Hover your finger for another 10 to 15 seconds 10 to 15 seconds Now go ahead and relax your hand let your eyes remain closed and focus on the same spot in your forehead You may notice a bit of sensation right at your forehead Now what I want you to do is to drive all of your attention into that point Put all your concentration and focus into that point between your eyebrows If you're having trouble feeling anything, you can even gaze at that point with your eyes closed How does that work so Uh, do you want to do you want to try doing it so you get a sense of how it works Does that mean like with your eyes closed cross your eyes or like what yeah sort of so, okay This is what I would say close your eyes So take your middle finger and point it towards that area So I would uh lift up your wrist some so you're pointing directly because you're pointing up right there you go Oh see see right. So do you feel something kind of in the middle of your forehead? What does it feel like to you like Anticipation a little bit. Okay, so just focus on that feeling For about 10 seconds Good It's a good breath now go ahead and relax your hand let it come down keep your eyes closed And then Just focus on that part of your eyebrow. I mean not eyebrow, but the space between your eyebrows Do you still feel something there? Not as strong. It's like fading. Yep. Good. So like try to hold on to it So if you want to you can even Bring your middle finger up again to like reinvigorate like almost like blowing Coals like, you know blowing it using a fan on embers So you looks like it's just a tiny bit off center, but if you're going on feel that's fine. Yeah There you go. There you go And then once that feeling is very noticeable it may feel like a warmth that may feel like a pressure anticipation is also a good word So just like reinvigorate that feeling and then when you're ready go ahead and relax and now focus on that part The space between your two eyebrows And then if you want to you can sort of like If you notice with your eyes closed, there's kind of like a screen of blackness in front of your eyes I think those are my eyelids exactly And so If you visualize like where that point is between your eyebrows It's kind of like not really in the center, but a little bit above the center of your the screen of blackness of your eyelids Is that if it doesn't make sense, don't worry about it. I think so and so you can like look at that point And if you concentrate on that point as if you're quote-unquote looking at it you may notice The sensation is more present or stronger And what I want you to do is just push your attention into it Like just put all of your focus into that point And How are you feeling what are you experiencing right now, um, it's like It's like I I can see like this like it's like a darker spot in between yep good and i'm just wondering like Does it move if my pupils move or is it actually fixed? Good, so those are all questions that you can answer through experience Right, so you can try to move your eyes around if you'd like But keep your concentration on that point And what do you discover? I think it does move Okay, so then what we can do is if it moves with your eyes then where you put your eyes Will put the point in the right spot We can control where it is through your eye movement Did you lose all sensation from your forehead I have no idea So go back good go back to focusing on it. So you learn something that's wonderful Can you find it again? Yeah Good so now just focus on that So Try to keep your spine straight, but relax your shoulders a little bit take a big deep breath Excellent beautiful. So as you exhale just let your shoulders kind of hang down Like imagine like your body is just on a hanger and your spine is straight And it's supporting the entire weight of your body and as you breathe and exhale you can let everything relax Your spine is going to keep you nice and upright But there are a lot of things that you have to worry about A lot of things that you're concerned about a lot of decisions you have to make You're concerned about your horse You have to figure out who to ban and who not to ban Very taxing it is taxing Right. You have a lot going on And feel how much of the world you support On your shoulders But for this moment All of that weight is being transmitted through your spine and into the chair and into the earth The ground supports you And you can let your shoulders rest With each inhalation You're going to feel your body move and expand And with each exhalation you can relax So now slow down that exhalation Two to three seconds for an inhalation and six seven eight nine seconds for the exhalation Seven seconds for the exhalation Slow slow slow slow That for these few moments The entire world that surrounds amaranth can be set aside All of it will come back when you open your eyes, but for these few moments you have peace There's just blackness there's just you There's the weight of your body And you're going to let the world that you carry on your shoulders down for a few minutes You've earned that much at least So bask in it Enjoy it You want to hang out here for a little bit or are you ready to come back i'm gonna come back to my eyelid itches So bright now, yeah so much there's so much light. Yeah, it's weird, huh? It is weird I Have a lot to focus on when you're trying not to focus on anything Yeah, well said That's like trying to time the breathing trying to find the spot trying to relax the body Yeah, I I was getting the sense that maybe we were trying a little bit too hard, but So I was trying to focus on just breathing and just let your shoulders like There's a lot of tension. You really do carry a lot Oh, yeah, I also just have fucked up stuff so I don't know what that means my muscles my muscles are very tense. Yeah Yeah So I I know we talked about charging the laser beam but i'd say that you know yoga and especially like that muscle tension around the shoulders Is like you carry it you you have such a strong mind that That the stress and the tension will live in the muscles Mm-hmm So it's amazing how many people i've no idea about you know, what's going on with you But what i've seen time and time and time again is that the stronger someone's mind is the more they carry in their body It makes sense because you just you know You'll do whatever needs to be done And your body will hold everything that you can't for you and it holds it as energy. It's excess energy That you haven't been able to vent So i'd say yeah Have you done surya namaskar? It's a kind of yoga before No I would highly recommend it How do you spell that s u r y a? And then N a m a s k a r it's also called the sun salutation Oh, I do those all the time, okay Good Then you're doing you do it a lot. Does it help? Yeah, I mean, yeah Almost daily sometimes every other day and when you do it How often how much time do you do it for like for one round? um Probably just a few minutes So one recommendation that I would have is pose Not the starting pose but the first pose and the second pose that you good or poses number two and three So when your arms are above your head And then when you're hanging down, I would spend like 30 to 60 seconds in each of those and the rest of it you can do in like three minutes Yeah for those two poses like this and this when you're bending down touching your toes Yeah, and what you want to do is like reach as high as you can reach reach reach reach reach reach And then when you're touching your toes, let yourself hang with each exhalation. I want you to go like Further down like let your body just hang let gravity pull you down towards your toes Right. So when I do that, usually it's like i'm trying to pop my lower back and so i'm like pulling Like this kind of thing. So like no no no So hanging is difficult because my arms are so long Yeah, so so so when you're trying to pull your back, I mean when you're trying to pop your back That's not relaxation. That's actually tension. So I saw you put your your hands Behind your knees and then you were pulling So let your head hang down Let your arms hang. That's good. So put your feet together Good touching ankles touching okay legs straight knees straight Knees straight There you go. So as you as you lock the knees and keep them straight head let your head head hang down Not back head So where does the back go? Yeah, so you you can bend your back but just let let your head hang Just feel the weight. There you go. Now just I know it's kind of weird. It doesn't look like it's great form Yeah, good straighten the knees and then Just sit there like that like feel it in your shoulders and feel it in the back of your neck you feel that Not really I feel like i'd have to go to the platform because my arms are kind of like Yeah, that's interesting Hmm but when when you let your head hang does it hang I don't know good question. So I think I don't feel anything in my neck Yeah, but does it You're not tensing it right? It looks like it's hanging. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's good Back of my knees are tight, but my head's not yeah So I I think I think you're actually gonna have to focus on the knees and then your head will hang better I know it's kind of weird But that looks that looks good Like this to here. Yeah. Yep. It's gonna be your hamstrings Yeah, right So you'll you'll feel it in your hamstrings for sure Which is okay Don't rock Okay, yeah, just just feel that tension and then when you're ready you can come back up and arms above your head Namaste position Yes Let your uh, let your biceps touch your ears Okay, good close your eyes reach up Up up up up. Good now, do you feel that kind of like right in your what is that your um trapezius Um, I feel it more here like okay, so so yeah just let Okay, yeah, good so close your eyes and breathe Wonderful so hold that for like 20 seconds And now go back down So touch your toes you can also if your if your hands, um If you're there you go and what you did is naturally is perfect. You figured it out So now you're trying to place your palms flat on the ground, which is what you should be doing Make sure you if you need to come up a little bit You can especially if you feel tightness in the hamstring, but now close your eyes and breathe into this position Breathe into it Let your body do As you breathe in and out your body will naturally adopt small changes Especially with the exhalation so just let it happen. Don't try to do it Good So go ahead and come on back up Come back to yeah, so up and then you can come down to namaste position Which position oh the Right and then so just close your eyes for a second take a second to breathe And I would kind of acknowledge that you have a lot but also give gratitude And recognize that you're like capable of whatever life throws at you Right that you're strong Your body supports you your mind is powerful you have a powerful force of will Which even though you have a lot on your plate you're going to be able to handle And give thanks for that Wonderful Is this the right arm position or sure You can go up a little bit if it's tense Up meaning you can um, put your oh, yeah, there you go if that feels better and put your fingers together Yeah like that great How long is this all that for you can be done whenever you're ready to be done You're a pro amaranth, oh Thank you Yeah, it's I think um, yeah Did that feel I mean, I don't know where you felt you felt tightness where I was not expecting you to feel tightness, but You know, I think that a lot of that stuff because it's clear that you are flexible and you do stretch and stuff like that But really a lot of people don't realize that that second posture you are doing it right the second time Which is that your your palms should be flat on the ground. Oh, all right And people don't because most people aren't that flexible. So what we tell people do is touch their toes Do you think that tightness could be from sitting because the knees are always bent when you're sitting and they just kind of get used to that Position yeah, so it's due to sitting certainly but also like our hamstrings Certainly, but even if you walk a fair amount your hamstrings can still be tight like that Because it's just behind the knees. It's not like The upper hamstrings. It's definitely like above and below and right behind the knee That's not your hamstring then That's like your not sartorius I'm rusty on anatomy, but if it's right behind the knee then that's something else Let me i'm kind of curious now. I wonder do I have my anatomy textbook here? No I do not No, I do hold on one second. Do you have a second? Yeah Anybody else chat it's like Here to here. Yeah, let me tell you so we have a Netters an atlas of human anatomy, which is rusty for sure because I don't use this much as a psychiatrist Also, though you'd be surprised at how much I do use it Because I think there's a lot so head and neck back and spinal cord Pelvis and peritoneum lower limb Let's look at the knee plates 506 to 512 So let's figure out where you're tight Nerves of the hip and buttock we don't want nerves of the posterior thigh Cross-section of the leg Here we go knee lateral and medial views So it's could be your plantarus is it on the inside or the outside um It's like right in the middle. So I don't know it's so if it's right right in the middle. That's your gastronomias. Maybe The gastroc both legs too. So it's like equal on both legs Show me can you point to it with one finger? Like here. Yeah, that looks like well your gastronomias is you know, like right, uh, So move further down the leg towards your foot Yeah, so like, you know if you feel around there, there's actually two I'm pointing to it. You can't see yeah So there's like two muscles on either side of where you're pointing right? Can you feel that? So that's your gastronomias right there. So it's it's in between the gastronomias. So that may be a ligament. I mean it may be a ligament Where's an orthopod when you need one? or physical therapist I'll have to look into that but yeah, so that right there Is your biceps femoris So I see like an indention to above the knee like here. Yeah, that's because you've got like That's your biceps femoris muscle. I think okay, so i'm not quite sure So then actually what you need to do is actually a different asana entirely Yeah, so it's so when you pull your it's that's what you need to do. So when you hold on a second All right, I don't know if you guys can see this but so what you can so what you can do is If you pull your toes back Does that I can't hear you but come on Yeah, I mean that's always been Tight when I do that. Yeah, so that's what you want to do. So you want to touch your toes And lift up your toes. There you go And then the other thing that you can do is this have you done this awesome? Take your right leg put it over your other leg Yeah, I do that all the time does that well that's my back that's going to be for your back actually Yeah, so I i'm not I don't usually do those kinds of asanas, but I think it's like the other thing that you can do is Go up against So you can stand up against a wall and flex your foot So you can do I don't know how to demonstrate this but So but you have to turn around and put your And put your toes on the wall, but your heel on the ground Really heel on the ground but toes on the wall Like this. Yes I don't like feeling it in there. Huh? It doesn't really feel like anything. No, but but you have to raise your toes up So you can like flex your I I wish I can't explain it but I could Yeah, this is just this is a fail kind of It's hard So so if if your ankle if this is your ankle And this is your foot you want it at this angle against the wall is over here Is over here So like we'll pretend that this box is Yep So it's like this. Yes Okay. Yes at the same time or one foot no one foot at a time and then what you want to do is move forward So like with your body as you move forward it'll it'll increase that stretch Does that make sense Yeah, I think so Right, so you should feel it in your calf. Yeah And and right beneath below the knee and you'll stretch out that ligament and then if you you have your other foot back But if you move your other foot forward Do don't hop never hop when you're stretching. Okay, never hop and never wiggle. That's how you're going to pull something There you go perfect Can you feel that yeah just do those forget about the yoga Okay, if I find a good awesome i'll i'll dm you or something but i'd have to do a little bit of research Yeah, that is interesting Because that's probably why I have trouble keeping my foot in the stirrup of the saddle with correct form because you're supposed to have your heels down So it's that same angle like you're riding like this. Yep Because it's tight there. So it probably makes that make sense. Yeah Cool Any last thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day What do you think about Chiropractors you think do you believe in them? um, so I think Chiropractic has some data to support it I think that there's a high degree of variability in clinical outcomes for different chiropractors So good chiropractors are very different from bad chiropractors And what I do feel pretty confident about is that many chiropractors Claim that they can treat a lot more than the data suggests that they can But i've just had too many patients who have had the science behind chiropractic is not great But i've had too many patients that have had very very positive outcomes for from chiropractic to where I think there's something of value there. It's just really hard to tell what is and what isn't Okay, I actually am scheduling a chiropractor appointment with like a youtube chiropractor That'll be at the end of may and she's gonna put it on her youtube So if you wanted to watch it after I can send it to you you can watch with your stream Yeah I mean and i'd love to hear just what your experience is like in terms of like whether it's good or not good or helps Or doesn't help I think she does a better job I think than just like popping stuff into place because she actually like looks at the muscles and like massages them too on the spot before Realignment which I think is much better than a lot of them that just pop you for 10 minutes And then you're out of the office. Yeah, so I think one of the big complaints against chiropractic that i've heard from physical therapists Is that physical therapy will so you can get adjustments or whatever the what do they call it? Um Not manipulations, that's osteopathy. I forget what the what the term that they use is but but the one of the criticisms i've heard of chiropractic That's given by physical therapists is that a physical therapist will teach you how to strengthen the muscles so that you don't need to be regularly popped into place Yeah, and that's a more sustainable solution. There's very very good evidence behind physical therapy. Whereas chiropractic is like more more mixed Right But you know, i'd love you. I think it i've certainly seen them help some people a lot, especially with musculoskeletal issues Mm-hmm. Yeah, I think a lot of them don't address the muscular Heightness that is making your spine be out of alignment Exactly, that's that's that's oftentimes what happens but we'll see Yeah Um, are you going to be streaming still or are you done? Uh, i'm be streaming after this. Yeah, okay, so i'll wrap up and then we'll just head your way for a raid But thank you very much Yeah, this was really fun. Yeah, uh, how did you enjoy the band appeals? Uh, I enjoyed them a lot at the beginning and then and then I I think it's just like i'm very um They it just seems to be a lot that you have to kind of numb yourself against Yeah, that's actually my exact feeling every time I do it. I start off being like this is interesting and then like 30 minutes into it I'm like This is disappointing Yeah, and I yeah It's the same feeling I think it's like draining It is it is and so i'm sure you get better at it Like I remember when I first started doing therapy it also felt very draining and now you kind of get good at it And you enjoy it, but I but I think that that's also where I mean like this it feels so one way Like in terms of band appeals like at least in therapy like sure it's emotionally draining But you're like working with someone and you guys are like making progress together and there's like positivity that comes After the negativity whereas with band appeal like I don't know. Where's the positivity at the like? Where's the end of the rainbow? you know, right and it also is just making me realize like I don't know what's happening on the internet, but I think like People need education or help or something I don't know what they need But we had so many questions about what makes someone do this and like I don't know if we have an answer But I think we need to find out and then we need to like address it Which could have punishment could include education could include forgiveness. You know, I think it's like all options but You know How did you enjoy it I I had the same feelings you did I think um Are there other like therapists or psychologists who use twitch and stream like you do I'm sure there are other therapists or psychologists who are on twitch. I don't know if they do what we do Yeah, it'd be interesting just to like Have different assessments of My band appeals. Yeah, and they have had guys to review them They're like what is this like guys streamers just don't understand the stuff that girls get. Yeah kind of eye-opening In a shocking way. Yeah. Yeah Do you think there will ever be a Solution or is it just yes education and holding each other accountable on the internet? I mean, I think that's a big part of the solution, but I do think I do believe these things can get better and I think that part of the hopelessness that Things can't get better is I don't see a whole lot of concerted effort at trying Right, right. So that that's where I mean I was at the game developers conference in san francisco a couple weeks ago and even if you look at twitch for example So twitch has wonderful functionality to mute people and ban people But it doesn't have a built-in functionality to provide like positive reinforcement quite as robustly as it does for like bands Right. So what we're seeing in technology is that it's really easy to ban people but educating people Encouraging positive behavior is more difficult So it even has some features there that I think are moving in the right direction like stuff like featured chat and stuff Like that where you can like highlight positivity Yeah, I think that's cool. And I think a better solution, but I know twitch is a business So they would never do this But in theory, I think it would be cool if a user has gotten banned in like five or more chats Let's say on twitch. Maybe they're just ip gets banned In general from the whole site, but I know they would never do that because money But I think that would be a way to actually combat it. Otherwise, it was make a new account Yeah, so my experience working with corporations is that they don't seem to be quite as corporate as people think they are like Oh, they'll never do this because money like my experience even working with twitch has been that like they I tend to have a more positive view But I think the bigger issue is not banning an ip. The bigger issue is like what are they going to do to encourage positive behavior? Mm-hmm Right. So that's where like I think that's what's missing. There's a vacuum of like all we have is punishment But how is like the main question that I had for a lot of these people which I think we talked about is How does this person get feedback on how to behave? Because when you ban them and you don't unb like, you know if they're like and they're just going to go home resentful And then they'll show up in a blob would be a better method. It's finding out. How do we do that effectively? Yeah, so like you can absolutely punish bad behavior But what I see on the internet is that we've learned how to punish Way more quickly than we've learned how to like support or encourage positive behavior and you see that in parenting as a whole, right? So like a hundred years ago It was like spankings belts and like whatever like, you know, there was like this positive reinforcement Lovey-wavy stuff is like and now if you look at, you know Books on parenting and stuff like that. It's all about love and positive reinforcement We see that positive reinforcement changes behavior better But like the internet is sort of following the history of parenting where we're learning how to punish We're developing very sophisticated tools for punishment. But in terms of positive reinforcement things are lagging behind Yeah, I think something twitch could do but it would take some designing is if they had a like a whole Tier of like several different emotes that you couldn't access unless a streamer or like a mod or a vip from a chat Like gave you like a gold star on your account and then you can unlock an emote the more gold stars you get the more Exclusive emotes you have something like that to encourage it because I think if people start actually doing that and put that in their habit of chatting then subconsciously like They would actually just become a more positive chatter even if they're faking it until they make it Well, so there's also evidence that shows that faking it until you make it Actually does change internal behavior So there's data that shows that punishing people does not give them an internal moral compass Positive reinforcement is how people develop an internal moral compass you can learn to follow the rules through punishments, but it won't change your Internal like what is right and what is wrong? We're taught what is right and what is wrong through positive things right Um, but the good news is I mean, I think people are exploring this stuff, right? So they they did have me at gdc, which is like so game developers were really curious about like What can we do in our game? That's substantial that encourages positive behavior And so I think if we try like I mean We're pretty good like humans are pretty good when we put our mind to something and I just don't think we've tried We haven't given it our all yet So i'm actually pretty hopeful Yeah, I think there's definitely room for improvement I wonder if they'll actually ever take streamers advice for changing the community in that kind of way That'd be really interesting. I mean, I feel like they've been pretty open to hearing what We've had to say But I think that we may have a little bit like luck there or not luck But we may you know, a lot of what we say to twitch is also backed by science and stuff But I think if you have suggestions and stuff, I don't know I'm curious about I just have to think a little bit about that But my experience with twitch has been pretty positive in terms of how responsive they are to feedback Okay And i'm way smaller than you are so You're also more brand safe though, but you know after the show i'm rebranding so hopefully using the game show i'm doing as a Way to kind of launch a rebranding because I feel like that'll bring in a lot more Mainstream audience who either haven't seen me because they're in other people's communities or giving me a chance for a second time because The show is actually really hype. So hopefully I can keep some of them by changing into a more brand safe and I don't like the fact that like I kind of feel like I am saying that I don't know like there's something wrong with sexuality and cleavage. But at the same time You know it is what it is and I think that rebranding is actually just better long term for my goals Kind of have to go with the state of reality sometimes Yeah, so I mean Amaranth what I really appreciate about you is that I don't think you're black and white about these things I think you're kind of like nuanced about it, right? There are advantages and disadvantages and there's something to be said for pushing the envelope and like And also for like playing by the rules like so I think if everyone plays by the rules then we don't really ever get progress Right and at the same time progress can be dangerous being on the front The frontier is a dangerous place and something that I really appreciate about what you do and especially hearing your thought process On ban appeals and especially the comment about you know, are they fake? Like I think that that kind of stuff has really given me A new perspective, which I really appreciate And I think you're doing some really awesome work by just like Trying to figure out and redefine like what's okay. What's not? Okay, like what are you willing to do? What are you not willing to do? How do you draw boundaries because we all say Right that oh like women should be able to you know body positivity and feminism You should be able to do whatever we want to but we also we may say that but we don't stop judging people Right. That's true We create a double standard where we say one thing and we actually do the opposite Where we say one thing and we actually treat people like a different way And that's challenging and so I I applaud you for being right on that frontier, which I imagine has advantages and also like You know puts you in the line of fire All of the ban appeals that we saw today where people are like, you know sending a lot of toxicity your way So it's tough. Yeah, it's really interesting how um, I guess maybe more common in america I don't know if europe's as prudish because you know american Culture was based on puritan values and stuff. It's just interesting how we seem To still have this stigma around like female body parts Even if they're not doing anything sexual just like the presence of them seems to be a little taboo still Like like the undertones even if i'm just having a conversation. It's like because I have cleavage It might be deemed inappropriate even though children literally suck on titties For nourishment and that's considered wholesome So it's really weird how like adults view it As the sexual thing and kids don't even view it as that but because the adults are putting such taboo things on it Kids start to view them differently Like younger than I feel like they should be It's so weird. There is a ton of social commentary there. Not really my area of expertise, but i'm i'm with you and I think that that's like Oh man, there's just so much to talk about there in terms of how do we develop So there's this Set a subset of psychoanalysis called object relations Which is like i'm a human and there's an object right and how do I relate to this object? How do I think about it? Is it okay? Is it not okay? Do I judge it? Do I like it? Do I dislike it and and I think if you look at like how we relate to breasts You know is like very like a lot goes into that Yeah, um, and I even sort of notice it's interesting to see my own reactions to like now I have two daughters so How that's changing my perspective and what kind of conditioning I never realized I had um but you know, I think it's it's interesting and I you know, I think maybe we can talk later, but I I don't know how women navigate the world when yeah It's unclear what the rules are Right. It's almost like ban appeals where like no one tells you what the rules are But you could just get banned or canceled or whatever for doing something You know, yeah, or you can get judged or or you can be successful or like I just don't know how you navigate this world Yeah, is it really confusing to me? It is. Yeah Anyway Yeah One of those things where I guess is what it is it just it's one of those things in society where it is what it is Yeah, and also Doesn't have to be Right. Yeah, I think that's the tricky thing but um, thanks for doing this I thought it was educational and good luck on your show and um, best of luck to you Well, thank you. Yeah, this was fun. Yeah, take care You too Okay So we I just had one thing that I wanted to share with y'all so we had a couple questions So that was fun. First of all interesting More taxing than I expected it to be Um, I think you know when we did our ban appeals like we actually interacted with the people which I think is a little bit more challenging in amaranth's case but You know, I I think it's like I don't know the answers to this stuff And I don't know that I'm ever gonna know the answers and that's where like I really think uh, I really hope that Y'all can figure this stuff out Right. So I'm gonna do what I can for the internet and I'm gonna do what I can for y'all but ultimately like These problems that we talked about today like toxicity on the internet and you know What's appropriate to show in terms of cleavage or not cleavage or whatever? Not cleavage or whatever like these are kinds of issues that we need y'all to fix Because we can't do it all right So this is where like if we really want to change society if we really want to accept people If we really want to understand people if we really want to educate people and even if you all disagree with like some Of the things that amaranth said or I said and you want to educate us Other people have to step up and do it too And so I think it's like You know like this is too much for us to handle But like thankfully it's not just us right? So streamers have a Content creators have a platform. So there's like we have a voice that reaches more people and potentially you have but it doesn't have to be that way forever and So I encourage each and every one of you if you know if you think that some behavior is inappropriate to like Do what you can in a safe and respectful and like compassionate way to correct it You also for you to think about your own behavior and how you relate to other people And recognize that other people are like, you know the the people on the internet that you play against In your games or the streamers that you Watch Right. They're human beings that have thoughts and feelings and hopes and dreams and And sometimes I think that like people on the internet feel like they're insignificant, but that hasn't been my experience at all And that you have a lot of power at your disposal like you really do and comments can mean a lot to people Right like positive comments negative comments like you can affect people And I think that's the thing about being a streamer is that you can't be like You can't be like you can't be like you can't be like you can't be like you can't be like you can't be like you can't be like people