 Let's talk about some scars for a second. So some scar is a ball of undigested emotion. And what I mean by that is like, generally speaking, we have experiences in life, and we have some capacity to digest emotions, and we have some capacity to not digest emotions. And then what happens as a result of like, undigested emotions is they kind of like, they continue to affect us. So I'm gonna give you guys, okay. Thank you guys very much for rating, and thanks to Rectful for the rate, but I'm gonna keep talking. I'm gonna just plow forward because it's hard for me to engage with chat. So I'm gonna give you guys my classic example to understand the some scar. So let's say, how do I do this chat in slow mode? I don't even know how to do that. Okay. I don't know how to use Twitch, guys. I'm a boomer. Like absolutely boomer, millennial boomer. So I'll give you guys an example. So let's say like, I'm walking, so I have a four-year-old kid, and let's say that I walk, I'm walking down the street with my four-year-old, and she sees a dog, and she goes out and pats the dog, and then the dog like gives her a little nip. So she starts to cry, and she gets like really, really scared. And the first thing that happens in her mind is she gets like very afraid, right? That's the first emotional response. And that emotion sort of creates like, she has this ball of fear around a dog, and then I kind of check her out, make sure she's okay, sort of calm her down a little bit. And then what happens is I take her like, let's say there's an ice cream store, so I take her and get some ice cream, and then she's eating her ice cream, and after eating her ice cream, she feels way better. And so like, where did that fear go? Like all of that fear that she had seems to disappear, and she is completely happy. She's laughing, she's eating her ice cream. And then what happens is she's walking down the street, and she sees a dog the next day, and then she starts to cry. Because when she sees that dog, all of that fear which had lived within her the day before re-emerges, and she kind of had this traumatic experience, right? That's the way that we think about trauma. And so that fear like pops back up, and then she starts crying again, and then I have to calm her down. And maybe the next day if she sees another dog, she'll get re-triggered. So we think about that as trauma. And so that ball of undigested emotion is, in Sanskrit the yogis called that a samskara. So let's pretend that I'm walking down the street, and I reach out to pet a dog, and it bites me. So I too will feel fear, but there are other parts of my mind, like my intellect, my rationalization capability, that step in and are able to help me metabolize that emotion. I don't need ice cream to help me forget. I can actually think through stuff. And as I think through that stuff, I start to think to myself, oh man, that was kind of stupid. Maybe I shouldn't have talked to, maybe I shouldn't have pet that dog. Maybe I should ask people if they're friendly. It's okay, that was kind of a stupid thing to do. And about half an hour later, I feel fine. And the next day when I see a dog, like I don't get triggered, I may get a little bit of an emotional response, I may get a little bit of adrenaline, may get a little bit anxious, but I don't get triggered the same way that a four-year-old does. So what's the difference between a four-year-old and me? It's because my mind is more well-developed, and I'm able to metabolize that emotion instead of distracting from it. And the more that I digest that emotion, the less the samskara exists, the more the samskara gets dissolved. So what we saw with Rekful today is that he still has that samskara, right? It doesn't take like, I mean, you have to ask the right kind of question, you have to get to the samskara. So like part of what I do is like, I've been trained in this stuff, so I sort of know how to ask questions to get to the samskara. And we get to that samskara, and there's that five-year-old that's still like traumatized by losing his brother. And so he can distract himself with ice cream, he can distract himself with photography, he can distract himself with video games, but that emotional block is still there, and that needs to be metabolized. That debuff is still there. The debuff has to be cleansed, right? You gotta heal that shit. And the way that you cleanse it is by first diagnosing it, because let's remember that good diagnosis precedes good treatment. So the first thing you have to do is like understand that that's what the problem is. And that's what we helped Rekful do today. We helped him diagnose it. So now at least he's got a clue, like he thought that his life was full of depression and his life had no meaning, and that's because it's true in a sense. He lost his meaning. When he was like six, like his life lost meaning, because that's what it was. His meaning was to go home and like play games with his brothers, and then one of his brothers left forever. And he says that he's forgiven, but I don't know if he's fully forgiven, to be honest. I think that the 30-year-old Rekful has forgiven. I don't know if the six-year-old Rekful has. I'd be very surprised if there wasn't like some part of the six-year-old or the 10-year-old who still blames his brother. I don't doubt that the 30-year-old one has, but I think that's tough, tough, worth having another conversation about.