 Hello my friend. Hey, how's it going? There we go. We're good. We're good Um, yeah apologies for that I my camera died yesterday When I was streaming and um, I had to like fix some things And so I'm You know how it is I know how it is. Oh god, like half the streams I do is like tech support. Yeah It's like okay, what's wrong? Um, and and what what would you like to how would you like me to address you today? Uh either daniel or rt is fine. What do you prefer? Uh, go with daniel honestly, you know, I feel it's more appropriate Awesome, and can you um, just so I have no idea what we're talking about today um, yeah, sure, I mean um, I mean Happy to talk about like kind of anxiety just mental health in general kind of Being a performer on a stage, but also with social anxiety is always this weird juxtaposition in my life Um, I i'm very introverted and i'm very shy And yet i've chosen this line of work Yeah, a lot of a lot of introverts do that we may learn there's some really interesting statistics on on that But it's weird though, isn't it? Because like because we're all so public and outspoken and that when we're hiding behind a desk Um, and I know that even being on camera today and kind of face to face with you It's like i'm shy even about that and I know even getting ready for this I was like adjusting my hair like for like full 15 minutes and that's like oh god. I gotta look nice And uh, daniel, do you want to just start by telling us where we can find you? I I know you're a huge content creator, but what kind of content are you too kind? Yeah Uh, i'm rt game on twitch and youtube play video games live-stream video highlights um Clues in the name game And anything in particular that you like to stream in terms of gaming like what kind of stuff can people find if they Come and watch what can they expect? I mean we've been torturing people in city skylines Um, and we've also been building the entire earth in minecraft. So a bit of a mixed bag, you know Yeah, it's like murder but also a nice creative nice passion projects, you know Yeah, how is that? You're playing the new one. I assume city skylines too. No, it's not out yet, but i'm excited for it It's later this year. Okay, uh, just kind of reliving the first one. Yeah, I kind of you're on up for it Yeah, it's a game that I never really got into like I like but oh you're missing out No, it's a good fun one. Like honestly, it's just like it's just sandboxing. Just kind of having fun and design the shows Awesome. Love it. And and I noticed you have an accent. Where are you from? Uh dublin, uh, i'm irish. Uh So it's like I always it's weird because I remember people pick up in the accent I always feel like I have to give a disclaimer because this isn't really a dublin accent. Um Just compared to like my peers that I know here. I'm irish canadian technically Um, and I got just a lot of influence from my mum there lived in ireland my entire life But my accent's always been a bit scuffed Interesting. Okay, cool. Yeah. Yeah, it's always like a weird disclaimer when people pick up on that Because I don't want to say i'm irish because then the irish will be upset So it sounds like you think a lot about how to say say things that don't I I do yes That's the old social anxiety, you know Yeah, we got to spend a lot of time framing and making sure we communicate it. Okay. Yeah, I want to step on any toes Of course And so there's a lot of uh Yeah, it's interesting, right? What is it? What is it like when I point that out to you? Is that Does that make things harder? No, it's it's it's just pretty accurate because that's something I i'm I mean I like to think i'm quite self-aware of stuff like that and I try to pay attention to it Um, but I mean no, you're right. I like that's just how I am I'm the kind of person who I have to rehearse a phone call before I have it Um, you know, and that's just social anxiety, you know, that's kind of how it manifests sometimes um, I know that even for streaming as a career like something i'll always go over is like if I have like A bit or something I want to do on the stream For like a while before the stream goes live. I'm like mentally preparing it mentally preparing it mentally preparing it kind of going over and over Um, and I just can't help it like that's just how my brain operates and it's almost like reassuring to do that for me Again, I know that's just kind of like a bit of the old social anxiety. That's how that's it manifesting Um, but it's just how my brain operates and i'm just trying to be aware of it Uh more than anything is it? What is it like for your brain to operate that way? um It's a bit panicked Until I kind of calm myself down is how it feels a lot of the time Um, I try to just practice a lot like mindfulness and kind of just almost like awareness Uh for like the given moment in the situation because sometimes i'll stress about something like that when it's like I just need to say to myself you're fine Just stop, you know, and it's like and then i'm fine and then I kind of get a hold of myself um Yeah, it it it's just something i've kind of always had like it's just kind of how it manifests like Yeah, but I I noticed that you make a lot of statements like, you know, it's something i've always had It's just the way that I am. It's the way that my brain operates Yeah, yeah, I mean, i'm just yeah, I always feel like the need to say that as well It's just kind of being self-aware to it. You know, I like Is that because I know these habits myself? Yeah, um So I just try to pay attention to them. It's like I know some of them i'll try and like kind of correct or catch myself on to try and Undo like kind of a mental trap and if that makes sense, um Well, I mean because sometimes i'm just anxious for the sake of it and there's nothing to really be anxious about you know It's like my brain just overwork overworks itself and it's turning a mile a minute And sometimes i'm just have to be like cop on like Yeah, uh, and you know and and uh, it's almost like kind of a stern word with myself there But it is oddly reassuring Uh to kind of have that because I just catch myself on it, you know As like sometimes I just kind of need that What do you mean by oddly reassuring Um, because i'm calling myself out of my habit, you know And it's like it's something that I know that's like that's just part of how my brain operates but a direct like reminding myself of that fact kind of helps because Like it's not so much that like i'm doing something wrong here or it's like no It's more so that this is the way my brain is kind of just functions Um, and has always been you know, it's just acknowledging it for what it is rather than just kind of like Because because sometimes like if i'm getting anxious and that i'll like also guilt trip myself Like how dare you be anxious in this moment, you know and stuff like that Which is like, you know, I want to and I just want to avoid that because that's not productive that doesn't help anything um, so just acknowledging That my brain is wired this way and has always been wired this way You know and just kind of learning to live with that and manage that rather than kind of being harsh or negative towards myself um About my own person, you know, because I think that's just healthier in general. You know, there's no point beating myself up Yeah, so i'm noticing that when you feel anxious Which is a given by the way, right? Absolutely, like unfortunately for our sake here being on camera always makes me anxious. Uh Okay, it's just it's always been a thing There's a weird irony in it just from doing this publicly and also I know that Just recently I had a big stream where I was literally in front of a camera for like five hours In front of like just a massive green screen studio and recording effects and stuff. No anxiety there confidence was fine Uh for the most part but it's like just sitting down in front of like my desk and almost chatting It's like I feel I feel a little more anxious about that, but i'm doing okay What about confidence you mentioned that green screen your confidence was okay is confidence not okay in situations like this Sometimes it's a bit shaky. It's just kind of reassuring myself Like I can feel it sometimes like it kind of wells up like um when I get anxiety It's kind of like in my chest and it kind of like brews up a bit and it feels like a bottle overflowing That's how I would describe it, but it's just kind of calm myself down and it's like actually no you're fine It's like nothing's really overflowing It's just kind of steady and you just kind of like It's common Yeah, it's weird. So so it sounds like you reassure yourself a lot I do reassure myself a lot. Yeah, um, I mean it helps me quite a bit Apologies if you can hear an ice cream van, uh, by the way at the moment. He always comes around at this hour Yeah, don't know if he came up. Is it okay if we hear an ice cream van? I can move the mic closer to the window if you want I've never been able to catch him because like the bastard always comes around every time I'm like sat down to stream and it's like i'll just go live and it's like There he is again I've never caught him once do you want to do you want ice cream from him? I wouldn't say no Yeah, sounds cool I think we don't see too many ice cream trucks nowadays, but occasionally they're there Ah, no, they're they're they're all forward here in ireland like it is I think it was raining like half an hour ago as well. So i'm surprised the fucker's here, but here we are Am I allowed swear? Sorry. Yeah, I should have checked that. Okay You I I sorry No, I I because i've watched some past ones like I know what michael reeves and that like, you know He he swore like a sailor a bit um Yeah, but just making sure that's still the case before uh, you know, I mean start cursing violently Yeah, it's it's whatever whatever you want to do. I mean as long as we don't violate terms of service or to you know Yes, no, we should be fine. We should be fine um Yeah, so so uh, daniel you've already given us so much stuff. It's like so rich so i'm i'm hearing You know, there's a lot of of what? What was that? What do you what is oh jesus? No, no, just like say that like i've already given so much is like ah god, you know Just kind of exclaiming on it And what was sorry? Sorry, the irish mannerisms are coming out a bit. We're always like that We kind of just feel the need to remark on a lot of stuff. Okay. Ah jesus. Ah, wow You know, can you help me understand? What is the direction of that remark? Is that concern or positivity or just? I just think it's kind of funny because like I it's just like because i'm here like i've been chatting about like And you know, we're trying to unpick my brain a bit and it's like we're 10 minutes in it's like Well, there's a lot clearly here and it's like, oh no I mean and and and the reason I think there's a lot is because you are very self-aware I mean, you're too kind, right? And so I I think it's like you've already figured a lot of this stuff out you figured out that you have sort of a baseline function You figured out that You can react to that anxiety in a couple of ways So before we get to react we can talk about you you figured out that there's certain environments that will evoke it Or certain environments that won't evoke it You figured out that you can react towards it in two different ways Sometimes you're judgmental right and this is where you can feel guilty and beat yourself up or you can acknowledge it And you found that acknowledgement leads to sort of reassurance and calming of the anxiety And you kind of have to talk to yourself Yes, and it sounds like you've gotten pretty good at that I'd like to think so. Yeah, I mean it's just it's trying to be more aware of it Like especially in more recent years and that because like I god when did I first start therapy? Like it would have been I want to say 2017 But for like most of my life like it was kind of just like no i'm not doing that You know, like I couldn't possibly mean it needs it um, it's very much like I even the comment on some of that just for some of the background like Stigmas in ireland unfortunately, we're always a bit behind with mental health and kind of just like being more public and open about it like we've Come a long way in recent years in particular, but even like 10 years ago Like it was like almost like the answer to most like kind of mental health problems would just be which are not man up You know, which is not very productive and doesn't help much Um, you know, so it takes us all a bit to get there I would say in this country compared to most just because it's not really been a conversation Interesting I know Yeah, like I like it's definitely a bit of a change Like I know even kind of talking to my parents about mental health and stuff like that Like i've only been able to approach that in recent years and before then it's just like it's almost like it's a pressure That's like can't talk about it. Just got to deal with it. And again, not healthy not productive in the slightest anyone um I think that's almost like a product of an irish cultural thing though. Um I'm fascinated by that Really? Okay comfortable talking about that in in can I ask you some questions about that? Sure, I mean go for it. Yeah, let's go the culture and so Daniel can you tell us just a little bit about like what growing up was like for you like in you? So you grew up in our ireland, right? Grew up in ireland. Yeah. Um, I mean I was a very shy kid I had very little confidence in person I had a few close friends um But it was very quiet. I was deathly afraid of talking almost all the time I kind of just kept my head down and studied all the time like when I was just kind of studying for school and shit um Like it was very kind of uneventful and I would say that like I used to be very quiet and very and deathly shy to the extent I really wouldn't do anything and I knew it always Kind of made me unhappy too because I kind of felt like even as a kid that life is kind of passing me by Like grandiose notions to be having when you're like, you know a little kid Um, but I eventually kind of snapped out of that and I kind of had a bit more of a realization that hey life's short So let's try and undo some of those habits Um, we'll kind of be some of the upbringing like like for I mean more wider like irish cultural sense. Um, uh Slagging is very much a thing there. Uh kind of just like making fun of each other. Uh, And it's rampant in kind of just like especially like just going to growing up in ireland It's kind of what we do because like we learn to laugh at life as part of like kind of our culture and just our people because I mean for the irish and their history, that's what they've kind of had to do because it's all a bit depressing Um, so it's very Well, I mean just irish history in general. Um, just like colonial history and shit Like I really got kind of going like kind of quite far back, you know, and just the irish having a bit of a bad time um through the years So I know like I I know this just from my granddad and my kind of my dad and that He would have got it from him and so on so forth It's like you kind of have to almost laugh a bit at life to be able to process it in some capacity And I think that is just part of our culture that's kind of gone on through the years Although it's still prevalent even now and I think it's still a good thing to have to laugh at life a bit But then sometimes also to treat it with a bit more Kind of seriousness and gravitas is also kind of important and we're kind of stuck at that bit because of this whole Cultural thing. Hmm Um, so it's a bit harder, but we're getting there. We're getting there. It's a lot better than it was say the least Uh, and so it sounds like you had you said that life was kind of passing you by what were you what were you noticing? You weren't taking What parts of life were you missing out on? Oh god, I mean I felt like all I would do is just play video games and nothing else Um, I would play video games. I would study for school Um, and I went into uni as well like um, I could tell like I had passion for certain subjects, but I had no idea what to do with any of it. So it kind of just felt like What am I doing? I'm kind of just existing um The wake-up call for it, I guess to go into it as well. It might help but picking apart the old brain and that Um, but in 2015, uh, I suffered from a collapsed lung Of all things yeah, it was like scary it happened out of the blue Um, apparently quite common if you're just a tall skinny lad Yeah, I was gonna say you got the right body type for a collapsed lung spontaneous in with orax Yep, and it was a bit shy. Um And it was it was pretty rough as far as a collapsed lung goes because it actually had collapsed for four days until it was treated Um, so I was actually gradually being oxygen starved, which was quite unfortunate to learn Um because they discharged me from the hospital almost immediately because the guy said oh, yeah You're fine You can go home when I really shouldn't have been let home and I got like a frantic call when I was in college For my dad saying you're supposed to be operated on now, you know, it's like what? And it was like almost shocking and I was with all my friends at the time and I remember like because we had like A meetup for our college society and I was just like casually said i'm sorry. I'm supposed to be in hospital right now I gotta go Which was wild. Um, you know, so I mean that they patched me up that they fixed it. Uh But ever since that I was like shit that was kind of scary and that was kind of harrowing on my physical health That could have been really bad if they didn't weren't able to treat me as quick as they were ultimately Um, so from that on point on it was kind of like right i'm gonna try and live a bit more And I got a lot more confidence from that and it was like a very noticeable change after that Like I started being way more social Um, I could just tell that like I kind of clicked better with people in person, too Um, like I my social anxiety like is still very much there, but it was significantly worse before that moment And it was kind of that like almost like life is short that kind of came from that kind of moment of pain Um that really did it for me and really helped me a lot like in retrospect like it's It's weird thing to say in retrospect it's the best thing that probably ever happened to me Is having that lung collapse because it really did a 180 on me and my life Yeah, how does that work What I know right? Like what I know because because you think like well, maybe you could maybe you could do the 180 without the lung given out You know and you'd hope so um, but it's just what it took for me in the moment because it was just kind of god like This was actually really bad and it kind of just got me thinking about Larger sum of life and my own shyness and stuff like that where it's like god I could have just it got me to fix in on like passions and stuff like that Maybe the best better way to put it. Can you can you help us understand like what happened in your mind? So like so I I get that there's some vague sense of yeah my mortality Yes, right. But like how does that translate into like what are the steps that improved your anxiety? I mean From that from that being social was a huge thing So like I was involved with a college society, but I was very shy and reserved even in that society Immediately after the lung collapse, I threw myself into it Um, I made a shitload of new friends Um, just like it was almost immediately and I oh they were all scared shitless for my well-being at the time I remember so I was kind of playing it off still because I feel like still trying to come into college like a few weeks Afters like yeah, i'm fine just like walking incredibly slowly down the hallway because I can't go faster than that Um, but it just it really changed it It just I don't know it was something about the whole life is short and something bad could have happened here Thinking about my own mortality. That was a very good and healthy thing for me Because because I could always tell that I was kind of just unhappy up until that point I knew it like, you know, because i'm kind of just being quiet all the time. I don't really know what i'm doing After that moment, it was like fuck it. I'm tossing myself into it I'm gonna give it an honest shot and my confidence just like soared through the roof um Like it helped a lot Uh, and again, it's a weird thing because normally if you're thinking about mortality and that the old existential dreads on the brain and it's Normally a bad thing um But I know for myself that it's almost kind of like a more positive thing because it kind of helps motivate me weirdly how so um Well, because life is short. Um is how I try and like think about it. So, you know if If you're gonna like you want to try and make the most of it Uh, you want to try and make the most of your time uh, and you know, and so for me for a lot of the times i'd be kind of crippled with anxiety, so Indecision would rain quite heavily on me So I wouldn't be able to decide to do something because oh but what this but what that but what of all these Possible consequences kind of playing out scenarios my brain But with the almost mortality I kind of placed in front of you. It's like fuck it You don't have time to think about all these you might as well just give it a shot And so I just start giving things a shot more and it helped And so instead of like kind of like being trapped in like anxious lupins in my mind I would just be like fuck it. We're doing this And just giving things an honest go and it just did wonders for me. Um since then like Yeah, it's it's weird just even in retrospect now would have been like eight years ago But because I don't even remember like most of like my life in university and shit like that before then Um, it just feels alien and different Uh, but I remember everything past that from like my third year on was just wonderful and fantastic hmm Can I just think for a second yeah work away Do you still have existential dread? Absolutely. Oh god all the time Tell tell us about that I mean just thinking about life and thinking about direction and where's it all going Am I making the most of like time in that but like it's it's a bit different now It's not so much existential terror where it's like, oh my god, we're all gonna die. It's more so You know, yeah, we're gonna die but we can do something in that time. We've got a long while here And there's a lot of good stuff we're doing in that time too It's kind of how I look at it Like I know I know from some of my chat, um that like just crossing over I can see the emote We have it like an existential dread emote in my twitch chat the little sweating shamrock with a smile That's what that's from Um, you know, like I know even on stream i'll kind of like even joke about that and like i'll joke about how old i'm getting And stuff like that um But I i'm fine with that as well. I'll still get like kind of a little bouts of it where it's kind of bad for the most part it's it's Good and it's almost reassuring is how I would look at it What reassures you about? death Such a morbid way to ask. Oh god um I mean It's like an end in sight at some point. I I want to make sure I phrase this right as well Phrase it wrong No, because because I don't want this to be anxiety inducing But I mean it's a joy in kind of getting older and kind of living life from that You know and you learn to kind of look back at things and you learn to appreciate things in that moment a lot more Um, because rather than kind of stressing about it's like oh god, I didn't do this I didn't do that. You kind of fill with a sense of I did this today and I had a good time with it And it's like, you know, I enjoyed the time I spent today And it's like and also with that existential dread there's a sense of like right What am I gonna do tomorrow so I can make the most of this? You know, and there's almost something kind of comforting and kind of organizing yourself along that way um and kind of the feedback loop is almost like you make some plans you fulfill those plans And then it feeds back in your brain. It's like that was a good thing You know whereas before it was just like nothing is organized. Everything is chaos. Oh god What do I do is kind of how it felt and then anxiety what made it hard for you to pick something to do before? Indecision anxiety, um, like so what what made it hard for you to make that decision? It's almost like having I mean It's like having several different options on like a restaurant menu and just having to pick one And knowing that you're going to miss out on all the other ones And you spend so long trying to actually decide and pick a damn meal That you end up forgetting to order Is how I would maybe describe it. I I hope that kind of makes sense I'm trying to find the right way to kind of phrase it like kind of voice it. It's tricky um But I I it It definitely has helped. Um, yeah. Oh, yeah. So daniel I I love this dude, so okay don't don't I want to try to reassure you if that's okay Oh, yeah. No, you're okay. Um, so I I think what you're giving us is pure gold and I think it is going to This is maybe a little bit highfalutin but I think it's gonna revolutionize people's perspectives on anxiety So here's the problem, right? So we think that like conquering anxiety is through like good stuff Like we can believe in that sense But but but I I think that what what so there's something really transformative so like there are a couple things so this is where I kind of don't want to blow my load too early, but this is kind of where I am So let's go. So um Because here's the thing you say that this is this is the way my brain is right? This is how I am but That's changed drastically You get that? I mean I I do in comparison like before and after the whole collapse lung scenario like yes, I know I know that's adjusted a lot Yeah, right. So so like the first thing is that you assume so this is Man, this is so great daniel. There's so many things that you do that are both good And paradoxically like I think kind of hold you back in some ways Because we sort of more than likely we think about you know The progression of anxiety to be like this kind of upward thing But if we really like listen to your story and we think about what has helped you Right. We don't medically recommend go get a spontaneous pneumothorax if you've got an anxiety disorder, right? Just go go have your lung deflate. Go on But what I think we can really learn if we pay attention is If we understand it's not the experience itself. It's how the experience Interfaced with you. Yeah, and what we can sort of elucidate is like how did it affect you? And then if we understand what those pieces are we can help other people do that without having a spontaneous pneumothorax Does that make sense? Which is which is preferable? Yes, which is absolutely preferable Um, and then I think there's just so much good stuff here because this there's also this sort of this idea that you've accepted That you're this is the way that you are And that helps you get through a temporary crisis right by reassuring yourself but Paradoxically, I think you could be almost shooting yourself in the foot because we actually have good data that shows that You were a certain way and that that can drastically change so Can you actually drastically change again? And what would that look like? Well, it's not even drastic change though I mean living is just constant state of change more than anything, you know We're always kind of growing and developing but yeah, I see what you mean like kind of paying attention more to that is definitely Uh definitely will do me good rather than just kind of accepting the status quo is like this is just how it is Yeah, so i'll just let it happen and write it out. So it's like trying to change like the the process of and the result outcome Yeah So I'd say first of all Living life has changed like you weren't living life before you were existing Yeah, more or less, right? Look, yeah, you were over here life was living people were living life over here And you were over here and then you stepped into the flow Of life and then everything's bumpy Right. Yeah something about being able to jump into the river Sort of like made the anxiety go away and or you had to have the anxiety go away before you jumped in the river Which is what's tricky, right? No for sure And then there was one other thing. Oh, yeah So I recently saw a study that I thought was really fascinating That people who develop very strong emotional coping mechanisms tend to not progress in life Okay It's kind of weird right because you think like ingrained in ingrained in the habit almost is it Well, so I think what happens is if i've if i'm in a bad situation, let's say i'm in an abusive relationship And I get really really good at coping Yeah Am I more likely to stay in the relationship or less likely to stay in the relationship? Yeah, I mean that that that's actually a fair point then yeah Because if you're just trying to cope all the time and you're just going to fall in almost that habit loop and it's like Where is staring into faces like hey, maybe you should get out of this, you know, maybe maybe it's better like Yeah, absolutely. It's really bizarre. Like I I was stunned when I saw the study, but like there's there's really they were talking about how The better you are at coping the more stuck the more likely you are to stay stuck Yeah, and i've seen this with patients of mine where like, you know, they'll come in and and you know After a couple of years were like they're like, hey, I need more coping skills and i'm i'm like, you know I I don't know if I don't know if that's the right choice. Like I don't think you need more coping skills I think you need your life needs to be different Like I don't I don't think my I mean if that's what you want, that's what i'll help you with but I don't think my job here is to allow you to Level up your coping to the point that you can handle any situation. I think it's to help you no longer need to cope Right. Yeah Yeah, some of those situations are the mental trap instead of leading into those situations more so yeah um No, like it's just maybe something to bring in here. Um, i'm not sure if it's something you'd be familiar with but like um A book i've actually been reading recently. Uh, dr judson brewer, I think uh unwind and anxiety Um has been fantastic because he's kind of presenting a lot of that argument where it's like he's trying to undo the habit And he's like kind of like, um, i'm not gonna be able to do it justice here But it's just like it's an example like it's what you said there and so trying to almost pay awareness to it and kind of of that situation rather than just trying to Manage it best you can almost engineer it so that mentally you're in a lot better prepared and better situations for yourself Yeah, johnson brewer is fantastic Yeah, yeah, um, I haven't read the book myself, but i'm sure it's great. I've very it's been fantastic um So is it okay if I ask a couple more i'm gonna get a couple with some more do you have any questions for me? No fire away. Yeah, i'm happy to chat. Let me um You doing okay? I'm good. Yeah, you feeling like nervous or whatever A little bit but it's kind of it's kind of like it's settling now. That's the thing Because that's the thing is i'm always a bit anxious and on edge whenever I sit down to do anything like this But once I get into it, it's like i'm fine. Okay I'll just write it out a bit Man that whole thing with the spontaneous pneumothorax is fascinating dude. Like it's like that's I know right? Yeah um I still can't sleep my left side to this day. Um just from it Um, I definitely need to get some physiotherapy at some point because I kind of just started putting up with that after a certain point Uh, I can't do it because I feel like i'm suffocating which is weird. I've never been able to eight years on That's what's that like? That's not great sometimes I roll over in the night and I feel like i'm choking That's hilarious Yeah, I definitely I i've some physio ahead of me. I'm very much aware. Um, But i've also know that like whenever I sleep i've gotten very used to just sleep in a particular way Which again is kind of like almost like it's just what you're saying like mentally almost coping That's like a physical example of it. Here's me coping physically so I don't just you know suffocate in my sleep Should just get it checked out, you know be easier How does that do you write if I ask a personal question? Go for it. Um, how does that affect like relationships What not being able to sleep on my left side does that make sleeping with people weird I mean I Do you just positions on the bed like you make sure you can face them or you're facing the edge of the bed? Is that's what you're going for well, I'm just i'm curious because it seems like it's kind of uh It's like it's like a pretty big it's like you're playing that game with a handicap. You know what i'm saying? It's like you can't Oh god chat's reaction that this is fucking great. Yeah, so you mind if I ask you a personal question No, I mean i'm just curious because like, you know, these are the kinds of things that you're curious. Are you doctor? Yeah, yeah, I mean so this is what you learn like so being a doctor like what I learn is that the impact So when we think about something like a spontaneous pneumothorax We can reinflate your lung But i've noticed that one of the biggest problems in medicine is we don't really understand how conditions i'm 100 serious How conditions like impact people's like like other parts of their life like it has never crossed my mind That someone with a spontaneous pneumothorax Could actually have problems like in their romantic relationships Because you know and like that's that's like a huge part right like being able to like move around while you sleep And forget about romantic just just being able to like sleep comfortably is like huge Yeah, no for sure. Um, and I have to be very particular with that I know even like kind of physical health and that for exercise and um, it's always an issue lifting weights Uh, what I do more than anything is mainly just lift weights because i'm always just trying to like make sure I have some Upper body strength more than anything. Uh, so just in particular. I can't lift shit with this arm It it's like above my head now it it and is that because of this I mean, I think I think it's because I I think it's like a mix of things because like it's weird because if I exercise too much I always feel pressure in my lung. Huh is how I would describe it And again, I always wonder about that and I I definitely know I have some physio ahead of me Like my doctor has recommended that too. I just need to go and actually Organize it at some point I've kind of just got a bit too comfortable just kind of putting up and accepting that again as well Where it's like maybe maybe I should just check that out and not be in pain Yeah, yeah Yeah, well, i'm sorry was that did I overstep with that personal question? Like no you're grand. No, you're grand Don't worry. It was just it was just quite funny. You know what phrase it in that You know your grand. I wasn't asking questions about your penis, you know Like you don't have the thing specific No, but i'm saying like I thought that was Anyway, so my next dream after this is gonna be like my chat's gonna be it's like hey, I saw you on doctor Dr. K. I saw he was asking about your dick You know, i'm just talking about sleeping positions, you know what i'm saying like, yeah, yeah, of course, of course Yeah, anyway, so It's grand it's grand Uh back to anxiety and the existential debt of yes, that's the uh, sorry fear of death. Yes, let's go. Okay um You have questions for me daniel anything about this kind of like resonate with you or that you're kind of curious about like What do you want to talk about? um I mean i'm happy to kind of unpick sort of like what you think of like the whole irish cultural thing on my kind of Eating mental health and that through the years and how it's again, we have a philosophy that's kind of helpful but then also kind of not because I think laughing at life is Quite a valuable thing to do. They're almost like a good way of processing emotions, you know, but obviously, um I mean the way ireland has kind of done it And it says weird even saying that because it's not like like yes, mr ireland taught us this but no it's like a societal way of handling it um, so it It's kind of difficult with mental health in some capacities like men's mental health is in the shitter in this country like it just is Um, you know And that's just a cultural thing Uh, it's getting better, but it's it's it's been very bad Can you tell me more about men's mental health in ireland? I mean people just don't talk about it Uh, like it's hard even with like kind of like close genuine friends to open up about that kind of thing or even be vulnerable Because i'm it's like there's very much a sense like oh no, i'm grand i'm grand don't need to talk about that No, don't worry about it. It's like we almost all like repress it And I and you know, I know that even like speaking to some of my close friends in that when they're clearly going through shit It's hard to kind of just get through them and be like, you know Have them be vulnerable or kind of be there for them because we all just isolate ourselves So i'm gonna ask you some stupid questions Didn't say personal that time. I didn't Um, so But why do you need to talk about it? Why do you correlate not talking about it or being vulnerable with things are bad? Because it's healthy ain't it to kind of talk about it, you know Um, or like especially when like shit's hitting the fan It's nice to be able to have someone lean on them and be like listen. I'm actually not doing that well in the head You know, and I know i'm thankful for my friends and that you know, because I do Like I do feel like I can do that with them, but I know that sometimes I even feel it in myself I'm like no, I don't want to bother them Don't want to bother them and the closest form of kind of almost talking about that we'll get is kind of like a Friend group or culture would be like joking about it or slagging about it You know, it's like jesus wasn't that terrible like like It's like here's one that I know right and it's like like it kind of says it um My dad and his grandmother, uh when his mother passed away my grandmother passed away How we like I mean he kind of processed it in that almost jokey way I remember we were just out of the funeral and then like I asked like dad How are you feeling and it's like and his response was jesus. She's not looking well in there It's like dude, like your mum just passed, you know, and it's like I want to make sure he's actually all right um You know, but but that kind of says it though, doesn't it? It's like yeah, you can't like even then that's quite a serious one. It's like maybe we should chat You know But like it says it was your dad. So this is what i'm kind of i'm i'm gonna kind of push you on this for a second So what are the signs that things aren't going well? Oh now what do you like just so so like how so so i'm with you right so that's drastic seems seems crazy right, you know like Your mom just passed away and you're like, wow, she's not looking great You know, I can't I can't bloody hell like, you know, because I because I understand, you know laughing at life and cope with it Jesus, you know, yeah, so but but how do you know that men's mental health isn't good? How do you know that that's not sufficient? well, because Because I mean I see I just see like friends and family just struggling more than anything and a lot of the time It's just because they don't talk about it. What do you see? Um Which is like stress kind of isolated not getting a whole like I Not communicating or like not reaching out, you know It's like like it'll be times where like a friend is just clearly in a lot of trouble and just life's not going too Well, and you can kind of see it um But you can't really be there for like emotionally unavailable And it's just like ah, yeah, i'm just gonna toughen up and i'll be grand and it's like, you know Maybe you don't always need to toughen up, you know, maybe it's good to just chat about it sometimes You know Because I because I mean I know from experience the times I chat about that stuff my friends It's fucking miles better than just not saying anything, you know, so it's from experience there that I would know that yes It really helps to just chat about shit, you know, and even things like I know some friends like god love them Where they'll be like, oh no, I don't want to go to a therapist and i've never been the one in their life and it's like What what are you doing? You know like Like You you you'd go to the doctor if your leg was hurt, you know, like It's that kind of scenario. I know it's a bit of irony there me with my old lung and I still haven't fucking treated it But you so when did you first go see a therapist? Uh, it would have been 2017 or 2018. I can't remember when exactly okay, but it would have been about then I just need to know if it was before or after 2015 Yeah, it was after it was after because being much more aware of that and kind of just living it was just like huh Maybe I should like kind of try and unpack some of this baggage that sometimes eats away at me, you know And it's like yeah, i'm gonna go talk to someone who's professionally trained to handle my shit, you know, yeah, I'd like listen So daniel, can you tell me about toughening up? You've mentioned that, you know people will say man up toughen up what? Yeah, well tell me about that I mean, it's just the expectation that like be fine and dandy. Otherwise you're bothering people I I I don't know like it's the sense that like It's a sense that you I just you kind of get here what you did before now. I'm growing up a bit since then But it's just like if you have an issue you just got to deal with it You know, and you're not allowed to be emotional about or anything like that. You just have to get stronger overcome problem and Be normal again, which is not healthy at all. It's it's really toxic Where does that pressure come from like what what do like I'm gonna know it. Yeah, because it's it's not anyone in particular like that's the thing Like it is a cultural thing like someone's even saying in chat as sure it'll be grand. It's grand Which is like one of our most beloved phrases in ireland. That's that'll be grand. Oh, that's terrible But abby grand and that's how we just kind of process it Rather than actually kind of unpacking and trying to actually more Appropriately deal with like a situation that's unfolding like abby grant. Don't worry about it And and what what makes it what is the negative consequence? Like so what are people when people are sort of like? Telling themselves or each other that I should toughen up I should man up What is the consequence if they don't do that? What are people trying to avoid by toughening up? I mean, I think I think for a lot of us is just a first step I think I think for a lot of us is just afraid of feeling weak or insecure, you know It's like god. I was emotional about that and I didn't process it. Well, that's embarrassing You know, I think it's some of that sense. So I think that's like the fear It's like if I don't tough enough i'm going to be emotional about this Um, you know and and have to deal with it then and like god, I just can't handle that Um, you know Whereas like sometimes if you just kind of if you're a bit more aware and you have a good old cry And you can almost you get it some of it out of your system almost, you know Or like a good old just chat with a friend. So expressing emotion That is not positive means you're yes Yes Um, that's how I would kind of describe it where it's a bit of a shame again We've we've come a long way with it. Um since in ireland, I would like to think I know in more recent years and that like even the idea of having those conversations with friends and family is like They're much more open to it, you know, which is great, you know, I can actually confide in them about stuff there too now Um, but it was it was very rough I know in my upper uh, like just in like school days and stuff like that Can you tell a little bit more about that? I mean sure. I mean, I I mean I know just for a lot of the time I mean a lot of it from manifest in school like people who had to be like bullied or just troubling having difficulties with Just education system in general and just have literally no support for it And they just be like, well, you're on your own and if you don't get the grades you're fucked and you know Parents disappointed in you all that jazz basically Um, and like not actually providing that kind of like more healthy support where it's like hey You know, let's just help you process this a bit better and like what's wrong, you know No one ever really asking that question. It's just more of a consensus like ah, you'll be grand. Just figure it out Are you be grand, you know? a lot of grants Yeah And which is not great. What's the downside of being emotional? Like why do people think that that is bad? Do you have a sense of that again? I mean, I think some of it is just It's coming at like just being A bit insecure what your feelings are like not having yourself put together I mean, we still have those, you know, we have those stigmas in our world It's like the well put together individual, you know, and it's like and you're almost not allowed to have that kind of weakness Again miles better in recent years. We've had a lot of progress there. It's okay. It's more and more okay being more normalized um But definitely like 10 years ago like no that was not the case So, you know, I've been public about that was very hard I'm gonna tie together a couple things that I heard daniel and let me know if you think this is good or not good So i'm i'm kind of noticing that if you don't handle your own stuff And you show it to other people it becomes Their responsibility And then you're kind of burdening them. I mean, that's the feeling of it. Yeah And and so so I I also noticed you mentioned like, you know, you don't want to be a burden to anyone Yeah. Yeah, I I think that is just a cultural Thing here, unfortunately, like no one wants to bother anyone and is that is that particularly true of men? Ah, I mean Yeah, I mean it has to be I mean I think it's it's just true for everyone But I mean men always struggle with that in general, you know, I don't think that's a mystery. Why do you think that is? Mean It's just kind of like Culture upbringing sure so when you media, you know when you think of a man, what do you see? So Uh, you know, you know the chad meme where it's the guy with like the chiseled beard and then the rock hard abs and it's like Just staring intently off into the distance like that's it. That's what we're all striving for Yeah, so I I noticed one thing that's interesting about the chad mean is the chad meme is always alone Yes, he is. It's very appropriate It's kind of interesting because like yeah, there's like the beard and the musculature and and the smile Or the confidence and there's there's no there's no one around them. And so i'm I also wonder a little bit about So irish culture, I I kind of wonder and now i'm you know I'm sure there's thousands of people out there who have PhDs and understand this stuff way better than we do but what i'm kind of hearing from you is that ireland has a culture of resilience of coping of survival Yeah, uh and you know and it makes sense when you look at almost the historical context for the irish, you know, they've Entered a lot of shit through the years, you know So it's like learning to laugh at life is almost part of that coping mechanism, you know Yeah, because we don't laugh at it. We're just gonna cry And you know and you know Jesus, you know, it's already got enough on our plate And and so i'm kind of noticing that I could imagine that when your culture Has Is subordinate to some like a different culture, right? So that that's what's happened a lot in ireland Yeah, um and you know happened in india and stuff too That that sort of surviving and pulling your own weight becomes important because you don't want to burden other people because it's not yes Everyone has to get through it and everyone has to carry like we all have to carry our weight, right? Yeah, basically So if you know I don't want to give you more to carry when you've already got your own shit going on And there's almost like the things cannot get better They just have to be tolerated, right? That's why we laugh at life. It's like there's no there's no way to improve things We just have to take it as best as possible Yeah And it's just a coping mechanism for that. It's like but maybe some I mean Maybe we don't always just have to take it. Maybe it's a bit healthier for the old brain to actually Untangle a little bit, you know confide in someone and actually discuss that Um, you know, it's like like It's just better for everyone like we don't have to have this mentality like well, everyone's suffering So I can't burden them with my suffer and it's like everyone's suffering the degree in life Yeah, so like but we don't have to suffer alone. I think that's way healthier than just kind of isolating yourself from the world You know Yeah, there's all in it together really fascinating that you stumbled into that. So there's um There's a really there are a couple of really interesting studies that if you have someone who has a mood disorder someone who's depressed One of the best things That you can do to improve your mental health if you are depressed is to actually help someone else So somewhere along Seriously, like somewhere along the way we we started to think that people who were suffering The way to help them is for someone from the outside to alleviate their suffering But if you look at it statistically or scientifically that person helping someone else has a very positive impact on their own mood And so we don't really think about Helping other people as a way to improve your own mental health It's not because you're right because there's like there's the helper and there's the helpee There's like yeah, those are two things and if you fall into one bucket We don't think about that as being one bucket, but kind of it's interesting No, it's fascinating. Yeah, because instead it's much more of almost like an isolationist behavior where it's like well i'm depressed Time to bunker away from the world, you know until I can figure out my shit, right? Because you don't want to burn someone Well, that's the thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that sounds that sounds rough. How did you Decide to go to therapy Um It's I mean it would have been Trying to think like when abouts it was Because I was in it I was tail end of 2017 I think um I'm trying to remember what exactly was it. Sorry. Um, it's okay I can we also talk about something else if nothing's clicking. No, no, it's good like um Like I don't know because I could I I was a lot more kind of confident I guess self-aware at that point and I could tell there's some things really bothering me here and there's just some stuff to unpack And it's just like, you know, it was kind of like a fuck it. I've never tried this It could be a good shot, you know um And it was kind of just that was what kind of led me into it And you know and I had like a god sent of a therapist in dublin for a while there um And I kind of online therapy passed that as well What what made the therapist a god sent? Oh, it's just it's just felt sane, you know Because it's like because like, you know, you're talking to someone in that professional environment You can talk to most like a sounding board and that and I kind of voice your mind and kind of get some insights into yourself And they help you know Tease that out as you go along and like you just help understand your own brain better So instead of like torturing yourself or your brain It's like you kind of have a better idea of how it's working and why you're thinking the way you do and that help that just makes you better equipped to Just I mean understand yourself better, but be just be in a better mental state ultimately, you know Yeah. Yeah, I think it's it's beautiful what you said that they You feel sane So that's the thing. Yeah, you do. Oh, i'm not losing my mind. Thank god. Like yeah, so the big irony is is people When you start losing your mind You were afraid that if you go to a therapist you will confirm that you have lost your mind because who goes to therapists people who are crazy? Yeah, which is just Unfortunate that's the stigma. Yeah, you know you're losing your mind You don't want to be losing your mind Crazy people go to therapy and the big irony is that when you go to therapy what you discover is that you're actually sane Yeah, you've been sane all along Yeah, it's bad, but you wouldn't know that until you go there and you're resistant to go there because you don't want to admit it and Uh, so it's frustrating. It's it's really bizarre, but I i've never heard it phrased that way But it's beautiful that that therapy is actually where you discover how sane you are Not when you discover how crazy you are and the big irony The really sad thing is that people feel crazy, but they're actually way more sane and and that's what Yeah, like you know you just you know, it's like Mentally like there's stuff going on there. You need to unpack. It's like going to your doctor ultimately You know, you just need to go to the doctor to try and work something out You know Yeah, I I like that analogy too because I think what we're sort of seeing is in today's world like the level of mental stress Outweighs the level of physical stress that most human beings experience I mean, I mean absolutely I mean we want to ease into the oh existential dread again as well. There's a lot of A lot going on there. It's unpack It's been pretty hot this last week. I don't know if you've been feeling it Oh, yeah, so tell me about that. Yeah well, I mean, oh I mean just I mean like, you know, I think like the climate that we're in and just like You know, there's a lot of almost existential terror there Like you just look at the state of the world and like oh god, everything's on fire and screaming Um, you know and it's like i'm just trying to like kind of get by my own life on top of that as well And then all this it's like it's overwhelming the amount that's going on, you know, how do you manage that? Best you can Honestly, I mean like You have to know when to untangle yourself, I guess from The larger world sometimes and take the downtime for yourself I think we're only built to kind of mentally process so much Um, you know like disconnect from the old phone social media. I find that helps a lot I think we need that more than ever because Ironic that we're saying it's not an interactive twitch live stream where everyone's tuned in, you know But but it helps it like you just know when to kind of just tune out and just get away from it And just like i'm going to do something kind of common for myself Yeah, no, it's it's funny that you mentioned that we're doing this on twitch because yeah So so I was at the american psychiatric association conference And someone asked me so it sounds like what you do is almost like hold an alcoholics anonymous meeting in a bar And then I said, well actually yeah And people may think that that's a terrible idea But if you really think about where should you hold a meeting so bar is the best place to hold an a meeting And and I know it sounds really bizarre but I I think that the internet has screwed up our mental health and Also is exactly where we need to be discussing mental health and we can use this tool for good too Right. I mean, that's I mean, absolutely, you know, I mean, you know speaking of someone with social anxiety just In front of everyone right now, you know, like it definitely helps um to kind of almost be public with stuff like this um, because I know like Like we're talking about like no one wants to talk about any of these issues. We're all just stuck in our own heads Here is us talking about it, you know, like like if that can help push someone into like Therapy or just like, you know, like a better mental state like that is very valuable, you know having that kind of public forum Yeah, I I think very well said daniel. I think one of the really interesting things is that As especially mental health became one of the most private parts of medicine So if you kind of think about like, you know cancer like We we the whole world was wearing these yellow armbands at some point To signal to the rest of the world that they had cancer. It was something that we advertised There was a whole like industry there still is of like cosmetics and merch around cancer and signaling to the rest of the world that we have cancer and then on the Opposite end of that we have mental health where if you go to a therapist the last thing that you ever want to do Is tell anyone that you've been to a therapist Even if you're better and it helped you it has to be kept secret And so it's really interesting because the the private nature of therapy I think has propagated the stigma Yeah, like It's an odd one. Yeah, because it's like because you wouldn't you wouldn't just hide from your family I've been to the doctor like, you know that again checking my leg or something, you know, like it doesn't really make sense I I I view it as kind of like a private thing is an interesting way of putting it. Yeah um, because i've been I mean unfortunately to say a therapy for a lot of places it's Still kind of exclusive So like there are barriers to entry like cost would be I know quite a significant one um You know and like even get non-insurance plans and that is like very rare to say the least. Yeah um Which is unfortunate. Yeah, because it does just make it a bit tougher and then it It makes it harder to kind of just get mental health issues out in the open Because it is such a private thing and and I think it's you know, it's private for a good reason So yeah, I mean sometimes in conversations that are not live-streamed on the internet, you know, we discuss things that Understandably very private and that's good. Yes. No, of course It's just uh, you know, I think it's an interesting double-edged sword It is no Absolutely. Um Fuck how people are talking about depression merch and as in chat at the moment I mean there are t-shirts I see these days where it's just like how are you feeling today? It's just a cartoon character. It's caption. Ah Yeah, yeah, me too. Yeah, I think we get it in some capacity That's it's interesting I wonder if we should have armbands merch Um, just scream color what color if we had a i'm depressed if we had a i'm in treatment or i've been in therapy before Armband, you know like cancer survivors We had a mental health survivor. Huh? It's got to be blue. I'm feeling blue I'm feeling blue. It's got to be blue. I like your green shamrock icon with the sweat tank That one's good. I have him as well. He's just very anxious. Yeah anxious shamrock t-shirt Summarizes it. Oh god Yeah Um, did you want to explore more about like irish culture? Like I I feel like we sort of uh, I I I'm happy to talk about existential dread. I'm happy to talk about irish culture I can Whip out the old ipad and we can try to stitch things together and just kind of what I heard from you and maybe we Can share something? Uh for everyone. What do you think we should be doing? I mean, i'm happy to dive into the old dread That might be an interesting one to talk about because I think like, you know There's so much unpacked with culture and I think there um But I mean it might might be a nice one to go into because I know I know that my experience with it is like It's probably a bit different to most Yeah, so tell me about what what's your experience with dread? Um, well, I mean, I mean Well, I mean touching on some of like the lung stuff, I mean that would be some of it obviously Um, it's like there's always like a feeling of anxiety before but now it's just It's almost like a reassuring thing because i'm very much aware of the dread but also I feel like i'm living life a lot more so When I feel that way, it's it's a lot more reassuring versus just anxiety inducing all the time Um, I know i'm someone like almost because of that words. I find it hard to kind of switch off my brain sometimes From like well, where's it all lead? You know, what are you doing with life and stuff like that? You know like I still have days even now or like I wake up in a cold sweat in the middle of the night It's like i'm 28 and life is over and i've done nothing and it's like no you're fine Sometimes I get that feeling with dread, you know, which I think I mean that I think that would be a more common kind of feeling with it Um only get that occasionally but for the most part it's a weirdly almost reassuring thing because I can remind myself It's like stop that, you know, and it's like you've done more than you thought and things like that. It's almost like a like Curiosity is kind of like a lead seems to almost help a bit It's like you just start picking it apart and then you kind of realize where it's coming from It's not quite as anxiety inducing as it initially was so it's like so why am I feeling this dread? And how did this feeling come about and you kind of like tease it out and pick it apart. Where is it coming from? Uh about here Uh physically, um But I don't know like um, I I know that just from whenever whenever I was um a kid I I had it very like drilled into me from a very early age just the concept of time and just mortality and that like like I want to talk like I would have been like I think when I was like about 10 years old like so like quite early on and it's like kind of thinking about stuff like that Um and just being aware of our mortality. I know something that I kind of set it off was again Grandparents passing away on my mum's side of the family I know other things that kind of set it off. We've been reading stuff like um, What have been reading stuff like dubliners? Uh, I would have been reading like the catcher in the riot like quite an early age And stuff like that very much in part that same feeling where it's like what if everything's just not okay, you know And it's like what if time is limited and it's like it's like heavy Hey, hard hitting concepts when you're just like fucking 10 and watching like yugioh on the side and shit Yeah, you know like yeah weird what they have us read like Yeah, no, it's a lot like there's a lot to unpack there, you know um But ever since then it's kind of just clicked where it's like, you know Be aware of the time you're spending and for a lot of life like, you know, I was like kind of more so um restricted by that sense because I was almost anxious the entire time where it's like oh god, oh god Oh god, the time is passing the time is passing Um, but again post-slung it's more so okay. We're gonna start doing stuff at that time And so that's where it like it very much changed and became way more reassuring rather than just anxiety inducing Yeah, um So again, it's weird because again like I mean for a long part like just existential dread and terror It's like I think it's not just everyone kind of I mean who doesn't go through it in this day and age, you know um like for a lot of time it's just quite restrictive but now it's like a weirdly kind of liberating thing because Trying to be self-aware about it. I know how to like almost process it and deal with it Is how it kind of feels how is existential dread liberating for you? um Trying to find the right way to say it like it's it's it's it's hard to express but there's it's it's almost like a laugh at it kind of a sense in life because like i'm kind of aware of like my age and Kind of mortality and stuff like that and like kind of spending time. It's like It makes me appreciate The good things happening in my life and also When there is something bad kind of going on it kind of helps me put it in the larger sum where maybe it's not as bad As it seems initially Is maybe a good way to phrase it. It's not strictly the dread that's doing that But it's the dread that's kind of leading to some of that change and just more mental well-being I would argue This is great I'm uh So what would you when you said let's let's talk about the existential dread what part of it what would you like me to You want me to just kind of keep going or is there something in particular you wanted to share? Um, or you wanted to focus on? I'm not entirely sure. I mean, i'm happy with the keep going a bit like it it it's hard to express unfortunately So let me hear let me let me share with you what i've heard so far sure So you still have existential dread Yes, but your relationship. So what do you mean by existential dread? Let's actually start there What is existential dread? uh Life is short time is fleeting We have a limited time on this planet and we should make the most of it Okay, that's kind of like that. Yeah, so I kind of almost like a personal just what are you doing with your time kind of dread? Okay And and there are times where that dread feels dreadful Yes, and there are times where that dread feels liberating Yes, there is like some sometimes it it can be oddly helpful. I don't know and and let's talk about the dreadful dread Okay a second and we will explain to everyone else how to get to the liberating dread. Okay, we will get all that It's great So you say i'm 28 you wake up in a cold sweat in the middle of the night because you slept on your left side Yes It's like damn it. I forgot to check out the lung again and then You're 28 and you've done nothing done nothing Tell me about that It's just like it's a cold sweat. It's blind panic. It's just like oh my like the home alone like face from kevin where it's like, ah Um, it's just it's it's just panic and I don't know it just hits you sometimes, you know It's the kind of thing that comes in a wave and it's just like we almost need a bit. Sorry. Where does it come from? I wish I knew like sometimes yeah, because like sometimes it just hits you You know, it's like you don't really plan on it But it's like something gets you thinking about life or the larger picture and it's like I think there's almost like there's some self-doubt that probably where it comes from. It seems most plausible. I would say Okay, you know because like because I would like to think that i'm pretty confident in what i'm doing and and life and that But then sometimes it'll just hit me if it's like but what if you didn't Make the most of it. What if you didn't do your best? Sometimes i'll hit it'll hit me like say it maybe even after a stream or something like that where it's just like That could have been better and you know, and I like, you know, and I feel like for the crowd that's here It's like i've kind of let them down Um, I know some of that will be mixed up with social anxiety as well Uh, we have a nice old cocktail going on here of like several things um But like sometimes there'll just be like a dread there because it's like, oh I feel like I didn't do my best that stream And I feel like that was a waste And that could have been better and I feel like it was just like, you know, I wasted that evening Uh, but not often not uh more often than not. It's not as bad as I thought it was Um, there's there's like a lot of streams where I like i'll have them where i'll go through and it's like that could have been better And then uh, my editor chloe will send me on the edited stream and it's fucking hilarious And it's like where did this come from? You know, did you like where did you find this? Um, and it it like sometimes I just self-doubt I I think is where it comes from. Yeah, so so let's talk about that How when was the first time that you got that you can remember that? Like how long have you been feeling existential dread that you're not making the most of your life? that It I it would be about 10 or 11 And what I mean you were 10 or 11 I can't remember anything in particular. I Okay. Well the I'm trying i'm trying to pick it apart myself. I've not looked at this myself in a while um I I think it would be related to school more than anything is where I would probably pick it out um, because I because I always knew that like like for school on that and like kind of like I was always Good at school, you know, I like buckle down do my homework study in that, you know I I got like good grades in that you know, like there's no trouble with my parents there or anything um But I think some of the earliest ones would be like what if there's more to life than just getting good grades, you know Which I like for child me like that was kind of like a big thing It's like what do you mean? There's more than just doing well at maths Um, but like that kind of manifested itself in more so in secondary school Um, because I was still kind of struggling that train But I remember there was one thing I did that really helped me kind of veer away from it a bit again um fred secondary school or high school, um, I was actually studying to be an engineer And all up until my final year, I picked all of my subjects in relation to engineer and like designing communication graphics Applied maths. I did everything in relation to that and then I realized I actually Don't want to do this forever and I jumped ship to english, uh because I just knew that like I really like reading books and I don't know if there's anything from this, but I know i'm more passionate for this so i'm not going to do it my parents were like I remember like You know, they were kind of like shocked and confused by it because I'd spent like, you know five years at that point Just preparing for this and my final year. It's like i'm jumping ship That would have been like about six months before I had my final exams Um, you know like ship out of existential dread Not out of dread it was kind of more so well It's like passion mostly passion because I I could tell it's like my heart's not in this I don't want to be an engineer for the rest of my life You know, it's I I don't think i'm going to enjoy doing this forever But part of that was kind of came about from the dread of realizing. Oh god I might be doing this my entire life. Hold on a second So I I think we got to go be before secondary school because what you're describing to me is a manifestation of the dread In secondary school. Does that make sense? It was already there Yes, no, it's already there. Yeah, right. So the dread was telling you hey, you're about to make a mistake bro oh Just a scary concept. So here's the thing. Is there more to life? Is that a question that you had? Uh, I mean back then yes, so I'm gonna go out on a limb. I think you had an answer I think I had an answer. Oh, yeah Oh, yeah when you were 10 or 11 you had an answer Because you were good at grades, right? I'm good at school. Yeah When you're 10, yes, yes, absolutely what else is there There's you know, there's there's travel there's ash there's people, you know, not when you're 10 Besides grades There's video games sure, uh, there's friends Yeah, um very local sense. There's There's movies there's having fun Yeah, and you were doing all of those things, right? I mean I was doing them when I was when I was a kid too. Yeah, what were you not doing when you were 10 or 11? I See it's weird because it still felt like I wasn't really living which is quite dramatic for you know 10 year old me to kind of claim it's like I don't yes, you know, yes, I haven't experienced this world Oh, what was me? It's like dude go watch scooby-doo. Don't don't devalue The way that you felt you see what you're doing there This is why you don't know where it comes from because anytime you get close to where it comes from What do you do? You say it's silly to feel that way So you're shutting off conversation with yourself When you do that, yes. No, I I I can I can see that. Yeah, right I'm like just kind of saying is like i'm just being dramatic and silly and that yeah. No, but 10 year old you What were they missing? Because life was passing you by what was what was passing you by just more of a sense of purpose In grades Yeah Yeah, because it's it's uh, sorry, let me let me try to so i'm i'm curious I'm struggling between asking you an open-ended question and just kind of going with my hypothesis Okay, so like when you were 10 Yes I'm guessing that like on a week to week basis There were some things that you did that were fun. You had a couple friends. You were good at a couple friend Video video games, but then there was like stuff that was happening that you were not doing What was happening when you were 10? Do you remember? Were there any times in your life where you felt like There's something happening in life that I want to live and I can't So I actually I actually do think I know what part of it is and I haven't actually thought about this in a long time A lot of my friends were involved in clubs and stuff like that back in the day when I was 10 and they would do all these extra things outside of school that I Simply was not involved in because I had my friends I had video games, but that was it For the most part like books as well But I would always see people going in clubs and going on these like kind of wild adventures like gale tucks Like the irish language schools that we'd have And I wouldn't do any of that. It would just be school games school games school games friends, you know But it's a bit of the spice it up there Um But that was some of it that would have been some of it It's like like, you know god like all these people around me. It feels like they're doing more And how did it feel to be doing less Pretty bad Pretty bad, uh pretty anxious and deuce and it's like god. I should be doing more with my time. It's kind of how it felt You know, but I was still also struggling to do that Um for quite some time, you know Like I I again in secondary school would have came out into my own A bit more it wouldn't have been until college that I really got there. I would say You know, so it was a long time Not only were you missing out on life but You probably why were you not involved in clubs? Why weren't you doing what they were doing? It's just kind of scared That's it. Yeah I mean I think I think because I didn't really think about social anxiety or anything back then or even the concept of me having anxiety was unknown to me at that point And you know, I mean being kind of closed off and reserved like, you know, I couldn't be open with anyone about that You know, I would like less of all my parents um Yeah, like it just it just kind of felt like it sucked a bit Uh, it just felt like life was passing me by and that's that's actually probably where it comes from god I haven't thought about that in a long time Oh, my therapist is gonna have a field day after this. We're just getting started bro Oh god, i'll i'll pass on the notes to him. So now the next question becomes What's it like to inhabit someone in the game of life who can't play it I It's like how does it feel to be an NPC? Yeah, right like there's all this like who's who's responsible for not being a part of the club? Why aren't you part of the club? Again, I was just socially anxious. I was kind of scared There was no reason and I I did actually try even at one point and I remember trying I joined a sailing club when I was about 10 and and Uh, like we live in like a coastal town that I was out in a boat for a few weeks And I stopped because I just got really anxious and scared being around people at that time I just like completely dipped out of it again and that kind of led into it too. It's like oh god Now I tried the club, but I couldn't do the club well enough Uh, so that kind of fed into it too thinking about it. Yeah, so if you're someone who Life is there to be lived Yeah, but you're not capable of living it It's how it felt Yeah, you know when I was a kid, I know it's just it's pretty tough going and it's like You know, I I think there was like the media that I had would have kind of helped me be a bit more aware of it But also kind of It still felt powerless to do something about it Like again reading dubliners reading catcher in the rye like catcher in the rye hugely is like that whole idea of paralysis And feeling like you just can't do what you need to do You know going through that hole and touches on it so much of the time like what he needs and he identifies what would be Good for him, but he just can't do it, you know, because he's you know, uh, he's just struggling And what do you think happens to someone who is living life and is paralyzed? To be able to take advantage of it Who can't live it because it feels like it feels like it just passed you by Yeah, you know and that's anxiety inducing, you know, and what do you think they think about their existence What does existence hold for them? It's anxiety, you know like more than anything I would say Yeah, it's like you just look at it as like oh god like what am I doing when everyone else is off in their own adventures and stories? Yep, you know and you wouldn't you wouldn't be too kind to yourself Uh more than anything because you'd be comparing yourself to others a lot You know, yeah, I I think that they would dread their existence Yeah Essential dread. Yeah. Yeah, that's probably where some of it comes from, you know, like I haven't thought about that in a very long time It's mad So what do you how do you understand the specificity of your memories from the age of 10? Why does your mind remember that you went to sailing club for like four weeks and then dipped out? I think somewhere it's held on to that like i've not thought about this in a number of years, you know Yeah, um, and it's probably just because there's a bit of trauma associated with it If I had to guess it's because I mean trauma not so much from the club directly itself But the experience in the club of me trying to connect and be there. It's like yes, i'm going to have my own story, too but then Being an anxious wreck about it and it's just not working out and the dread of that not working out Absolutely Right. So here's the thing Let's go when you can't rely on yourself Then existence becomes dread Because like all of these things could like, you know, like 28 years old you wake up in a cold sweat life is passing you by Why is life passing you by because you're fucking afraid that you can't actually live it because in the past you tried to live it And you weren't able to live it. So existence is not a joy. It becomes terrible terrifying like how do I I mean Yeah, I mean just to say there at 28 much better equipped for processing all of that mental baggage and emotional baggage, too Of course, you know as I wake up in the cold sweat, but i'll go back to sleep 100% So so this that's a really good point, right? So the other thing that we're going to notice is that there's fluctuation Of this part of you and that when you were 28 You're fine You have survived death Daniel Yes, I did it right. We made it out of the sailing club Problem is the problem is when you wake up in a cold sweat, you're not 28 the 28 year old you is the one who talks to yourself How old are you when you wake up in a cold sweat and oh my god, you're a kid again Yeah, it's like it's like waking up. It's like oh god. There's an exam tomorrow. It's like wait I've been out of school for 10 years, you know, it's fine like So this is really important to understand um Okay, do you have any actually look I want to think for a second and try to tie this together But any thoughts questions anything else you want to say i've been interrupting you a little bit. So no you're good um You're all good. Honestly, it's just it's fascinating to just kind of unpack some of this and like Yeah, I I've never really thought about things in relation to When I was 10 and that like i've not looked back on that time in a long while I think for things like dread and that like like the furthest I ever go back would be I mean like just being aware and like even some of the books I was reading that which like, you know presented a lot of heavy Concepts in that you know Um, it's just kind of fascinating because I have I think even forgot about the sailing club and shit like that You know, I haven't thought about that. How old were you when you read Catcher in the Rye? I've been 11 or 12 So here's the thing you weren't presented those concepts at 11 or 12. They already existed within you And that book resonated with you. Yeah, I mean, that's what it is Yeah, and it kind of like helped me understand it a bit more which is my own awareness there Yeah And also in a terrifying way because you saw a story About a kid who was you and you saw that kid get fucked Right left and center because they could not Develop they couldn't control their own destiny and you're like, oh shit But at the age of 10, you're not aware of this, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's like oh god i'm holding Right, it's and so it's really fascinating because from a timeline perspective it fucking it's like textbook dude 10 to 11 development of existential dread Right 11 to 12, Catcher in the Rye Yeah, 2000 some adolescents into the mix there too, you know Yeah So then some amount of reinforcement some amount of growth actually switching to english I think was a good move actually for you You felt a lot I think you talk about it because you felt a lot of existential dread But that's actually you taking control of your life because you're a little bit older, right? You're in secondary school. Yeah, so you're not You're not controlled by like the 10 year old terrified kid who is like watching life pass them by and has tried to live it That's the really damaging thing Is you even when you were 10 or 11, you're like fuck this I'm not going to be that way and then you get four weeks of sailing club And then you wash out Oh, jesus I'm just picturing like 10 year old like a little chubby me is just like, oh god Are you chubby? Oh, no, I so like I weigh as much now As I did when I was 10 so that Like I just stretched out as time went on. Yeah, right so that that's a that's a conversation for your therapist But I would dig into because even when it's fascinating right because when do you mention you're chubby? Now is at this point in the conversation like now is when you think about 10 year old chubby failure you Right just thinking of it. Yeah, just thinking about kid me and that yeah Right nervous bit scared. Yeah more than a bit. That's your old irish resilience It is. Yeah I can't help it I fall back into it. I know I I don't I don't think you should change that i'm just i'm pointing it out Right, so that's we we can translate your irish speak and it doesn't need to change because we both know From irish and this is some speaking english. Yeah, right We just can't understand them like no, but I mean literally the translation is when someone is smiling what they're really doing is crying That's how we translate irish and if they say a little bit what they mean is a lot Yes, no, that's that's fair. That's how you translate irish Oh, and and um, I think here's let me see if I got this one right. It's all grand Is that what y'all say is that it's all grand? Yeah, it's all grand. It's all shite Yeah, it's like we're just trying to process it and say it'll be fine. It'll be fine, right and and If we say if we want to translate it's all fine. What that means is oh god I'm terrified about the future, but I don't know how to change it. So I hope it'll be fine Please god let it be fine. Yeah, so it's just a bit shorthand to say it's fine. Right? We can translate irish It's just a bit easier in passing conversation. It's great. Yeah Um, oh god How are you doing daniel i'm great i'm i'm laughing and smiling a lot right now, yeah, you can translate that from irish Oh god, no, but it's fascinating. Yeah. Oh, I mean like Again, I mean irish perspective you learn to laugh at yourself, you know I'm like this is even part of that where like I can just kind of plain see it as day It's like god that makes sense and in retrospect like just being where I am now, it's just like God, that's funny. You know, I mean that's just me processing it 100 man Questions otherwise i'm gonna think Oh have a good think if you want I've just been catching some bits from chat as we've been going they had a great acronym for what an npc was Which was I think not part of the club, which is fucking great Love it. Oh, no, you're right Yeah, i'm okay, oh god Chat is brilliant. Yeah, god almighty No, but it's fascinating because i've not thought about some of that and like definitely whenever I go back to see like my therapist like I'm gonna actually have to Address some of that there's a lot of the conversation will be like more sticking points about the old lung than that You know kind of like the mental change there I never thought about that when I was like 10 in that because I just never thought it was important you know Yeah, I knew I could tell like things where it's like something doesn't feel quite right And you know and the timeline just kind of makes sense to a catcher in the ryan shit like that, you know Just resonating with it Yeah, I think the tricky thing is when we're trying to dig into You know our psychology There's certainly like a so the the perspective that I shared with you is more from yoga than than Psychotherapy or psychiatry it's it's more about understanding how our mind learns So it's not even about pathology or anxiety or anything like that It's just what is the process of learning and then what happens once you have a seed of something? Then you have subsequent experiences that will resonate with the seed and cause it to grow into a tree So catcher in the rye was like giving fertilizer Some of this other stuff like was like watering that plant and then there are like certain times in your life where the new Mothorax for example was like chopping down half the tree And and so it's so you'll and what you kind of see is that just the way that our mind functions So what the yogis sort of discovered is that we think of our mind and our identity is static But it's not static everything in the mind is literally a fluctuation So a thought comes and goes an emotion comes and goes Even states of consciousness will come and go So these are things that they called vritti's so they sort of realize there's no Nothing is permanent in the mind. Huh? Sorry. Could you just pronounce that word again? Because it's just very pleasant sound and vritti Vritti that's sorry. That's just lovely carry on. So these are vritti's are vritti's But vritti and so everything is just fluctuations in the mind and once you understand that Okay, like so your resonance with catcher in the rye there was there had to be something to resonate with Yes, right. And and so that's kind of what happens with a vritti is that once we have a fluctuation in the mind depending on our What we encounter in life that vritti will shrink or grow So if I tell you that I love you You will feel a tiny bit of love and if I tell I you I love you again You will feel a greater amount of love that vritti will grow in your mind And then if you tell me that you've failed or did something bad or whatever and I tell you I love you then Then the vritti will grow a lot Does that make sense, right? So if you don't feel lovable and I tell you I love you anyway That will create a very powerful sense of love inside you This is why it's so damaging when like you have like toxic people in your life and you come to them with pride You're like, hey, I did something and if they're like screw you you're worthless. It's not good enough. That's why it's so damn Right. Yeah, you never want to be open again. Absolutely so Yeah, I wanted to think so. I guess i'll just keep going. So let me know if you want me to draw this out But let's talk about anxiety sure So when you're so there's this whole existential dread crap, which maybe i'll circle back to but sure Let's understand a couple things. So when you're anxious There are lots of possibilities And what are you trying to do when you're anxious? I am trying to map out those possibilities so that like i'm mentally prepared. Absolutely, right? So Anxiety is about optimization literally that's what the function in our mind of anxiety is designed to do So what anxiety does is it projects a lot of scenarios and then If we can think a lot about a lot of scenarios we can pick the best one And the more that we if we don't know what the best one is right because when you're anxious, it's like hard to pick something So then what does your mind do it just keeps on? Generating more possibilities working through it over and over again. You start to loop. It's kind of unproductive, right? Yeah, you just burn yourself out with what's potential Absolutely possible So optimization is the goal and you're looking for perfect if you can find a perfect solution. Are you going to be anxious? Like I mean mentally you'd be like no I won't be anxious again But you're probably still going to be anxious because you worked yourself up into such a stupor, you know Yeah, so I I think that you're precisely so Theoretically hypothetically you will no longer be anxious if you have a perfect solution, but practically that's impossible Yeah, because you've worked yourself into a into super and also because perfect is not a thing right like in reality Um, except for your smile Oh Okay, too sweet. So you just told me you love me as well just a moment ago, you know, so I was coming on strong now So now something interesting so when when you had the pneumothorax what I would venture Is that? Optimization became impossible You realize that oh shit, there's no way to fix this like i'm gonna die because if you sort of think about it optimization doesn't Death doesn't really factor into that right when we're trying to optimize something. We're not like well, fuck Everything's gonna like it's gonna end at some point like so if you sort of think about it Death makes perfection of life impossible Yeah, okay because like that makes sense yeah, because it's like you can't i'm really around that Especially like you fucking you're supposed to be in the hospital and you're sitting there like in some club and in your Uni or whatever right and it's like well like wow I could just like die tomorrow and then like what's the use of optimizing all this crap if it's like if i'm gonna die I'm just dead. Yeah, so this is what's really bizarre is anxiety is the search for optimization in the search for perfection and Sometimes and this happens something like cancer or a spontaneous pneumothorax Will shatter the possibility of optimization or perfection and if you can shatter the possibility of perfection like Perfection is just off the table optimization is off the table Then what it does is shatters the anxiety with it Because if it's if anxiety is trying to do something that is impossible and there's like you're done We might as well just do something because it's not like I can pick a perfect choice anyway And so I see this a lot where people will sort of say like okay like I almost died It's the best thing that happened to me people have told me about that about cancer people have told me that about bipolar disorder I'm like, what are y'all talking about? but what happens when we start to do that is that it sort of shatters some of these preconceptions and Now that perfection is off the table now You're kind of free of anxiety right because it's like well might as well just do it because it's not like I can do it Perfectly anyway, and even if I developed the perfect plan everything could be taken away from me at a moment's notice Yeah, so this is the second thing that a kind of near-death experience does for anxiety is that anxiety is about planning It's about the future. It's about I got to think about step 14 And if I can figure out step 14 then I can figure out 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 but if like if you're playing a Game and like the internet can go out at any minute like you're not playing the long game anymore Like if you can short circuit the dimension of time Then anxiety gets way better Right. So like now you realize that like there's no point in planning for the future because I could die in any moment So might as well do something right now It's the second thing to understand about anxiety. This is also why if we look at evidence-based treatments for anxiety things like mindfulness How does mindfulness help anxiety it brings us to the present? Oh That is when our mind is in the future So when you're in the present, it's hard to have it hangs up anxiety Point just better for like mental well-being. Yeah like So here's the other cool thing that you've stumbled on So you've said that there's a lot of bad stuff That is actually good in a weird way like you speak in a lot of contradictions, right? You're like, yes, honestly having a spontaneous pneumothorax. I can't sleep on my left I can't exercise with my left arm and this is this is one of the best things in my life and everyone's yeah like and you know They're gonna be people who are listening to this who are actually gonna be coveting this and I coveted this kind of stuff, too When I was kind of like screwed up in life I'd heard these stories of people like you that almost died and they were like tested, right? They're like either you're gonna be shattered or you're gonna be a Chad and I longed for those transformative experiences where I was tired of being like Watching life pass me by and I would take being completely shattered and broken at least it's over or Be tested and be found to be strong enough and then I become a different human being and just like you Everything in my life becomes easier. I've conquered anxiety because I've conquered death Like I had these kinds of ideas where I was chasing things like what you were kind of, you know, what happened to you? Gotcha right, but one thing that's kind of interesting is that when you kind of like had this pneumothorax thing I think one thing that's really interesting is that good and bad You transcended good and bad So there's this concept in in the East called other weight of a Dante, which is non-dualism and it okay Okay, and I threw a bunch of stuff at you. But basically like when we think about okay, like Almost you know, having a spontaneous pneumothorax is objectively bad, right? Yeah Oh, no, I mean absolutely would not recommend and and Do you think that your life is better because you had that spontaneous pneumothorax? Not specifically because of spontaneous pneumothorax, but what came after that? Like the mental product of that it is better for that right so like yeah, okay if I go go back I could do it out a collapse lung Sure, right, but it's all got a bit mixed up and and so let me ask you a question If I could wave a magic wand and go back in time and take that experience away from you Would you want me to do it? Fuck I Don't know if I would just say like that's the thing because if that was the case Then all the mental good that kind of came from it may not necessarily happen now I Imagine it could by a different means but that is the one that it was for me. So I don't know Okay, genuinely don't know. So that's the right answer Okay, and here's why so you're I'm kind of asking you is it better or worse if it didn't happen and you're saying I don't Know and the answer is is that because it can't be better or worse. It's neither better nor worse It is it's just that's what it is Yeah, so I know it sounds kind of weird but the experience is neither good nor bad it is both good and bad Yeah. Now. Here's the other problem with anxiety anxiety Requires a judgemental approach So a core part of anxiety is that some things are good and some things are bad Right because that's what you're optimizing Yeah, you're trying to optimize it So you cannot be anxious about anything that is not good or bad Does that make sense? Yeah, like the fact that I'm I'm using a clear glass as opposed to a non clear glass when I drink my water Is that good or bad for you? It doesn't matter. Are you anxious about this? No Right if it worried if I was Exactly, right. So so but what what do you get anxious about you get anxious about bad things? So judgment in the separation of things in this world into good and bad is a requirement for anxiety Okay, so I think one of the coolest things that happened with you is this near-death experience taught you one really important Taught you all kinds of lessons, but it's maybe it wasn't near-death But one of the key things that it is it changed your view on good and bad and that allows you to fuck it Because if things are like neither good nor bad or there's gonna be some pros and some cons It's gonna be everything is gonna be good and bad Then you're freed from anxiety because it's like might as well do it Like you gotta just do it and then you will figure out if that was good or bad as by process more than anything You know, and here's the crazy thing Anything that you've done. Is it good or bad? Like so just pick something that you did that you were like screw it I'm just gonna do it I'd like Just pick anything like sorry the last time you just like you're like you showed up on stream today Right. I think that's a good thing Right, but I mean it could have been bad Couldn't have been bad. I was pretty confident about going in you're lovely, you know Maybe the wrong wrong example Look I kind of the point that I'm shooting for is that as you start to just do it things are not like good nor bad Like there's good stuff and bad stuff. Yeah, right everything like there's gonna be some stuff I'm sure your anxiety will be like oh I should have done this You know, or maybe I could have talked more about this or maybe I mean who knows it sounds like you're actually pretty good about that kind of stuff so you probably won't do that but and and this so this is the third really interesting thing is that I think you had an experience that really Shaped there changed the way that you saw things as good or bad because it's kind of weird like this You know, it is a mixed one. Yeah, I I reckon that's me even talking about dreading that word It's like a weird liberating thing and it's like well, what are you talking about? Right the edge and towards that. Yeah, and then I kind of ask you is is is it a good thing and you're like well Right, so it's liberating and it's bad at the same time Yeah, and so the more that you see things as mixed The the less anxiety that you're gonna have because if there aren't judgments between good and bad There's no way to optimize if there's no way to optimize you might as well just do it Yeah, I mean it makes sense and then just doing things I mean you still hope you do thing obviously, you know or So there's a lot of fundamentals to anxiety that I think your story like you beautifully illustrate right? So the first is this kind of dimension. The first is that anxiety is about optimization Yeah, and once you have an experience that sort of teaches you that like optimizing like for some fucking perfect endgame Is just like an impossible way to live like life is gonna work Yeah, you know like life is what happens when you've got what was it the best laid plans? Life is what happens when? Ruins your plans or some saying about that, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's when you don't have plans or something like that Life gets in the way when you've got good plans or something. I don't know. So that's a really important thing So now optimization is off the table The second thing is the dimension of time and sort of recognizing that time is very limited And this is what's really interesting if you go back and you listen to your talk time is lid limited is dread inducing and Dread-liberating like oh my god, there's only a limited amount of time So I have to make the right choice because if I don't have the right choice I will be filled with a regret and at the same time time is limited Who knows how long we're gonna be on this earth so I might as well pick something I'll pick something and then also just the retrospective way would just be it's like I feel like I made good use of my time There and that's almost reassured and just good for the absolutely You know if you look in the mind of an anxious person The problem is that they think that since time is limited I have to make the right choice They think that their anxiety is tied to the fact that they that time is limited But what they don't realize is that your attitude? Towards how limited time is can result it can can push you in two opposite directions One is paralysis and one is sudden complete action Time is limited in either case, but for some of us it cripples us and for some of us. It's like fuck it I might as well act today. Let's go. Yeah, just the amount of action at that point Yeah, and that's the problem with you is you people think that their anxiety is Determined by the fact that time is limited, but it's their attitude towards that that actually results in the anxiety It's actually in your control, which is what a lot of people don't get they think it's the other way around They feel controlled by the fact that they don't have infinite time and they can't play every game on the universe and they can't watch Every movie in existence and they can't do everything right times limit. Oh my god It's your attitude towards it that is actually creates anxiety And this is what's super cool is that when it comes to anxiety now, we're gonna kind of come full circle This is the way that I am. This is the way that I'm wired. No This is the way that you have been wired up until this point but you've shown us that drastic change is possible and If you dig into fucking this and sources of your existential dread Which still cause you to wake up at the age of 28 in a cold sweat and you heal that you will change If you start to really lean into you've already figured this stuff out but if you lean into this idea that anxiety is born of optimization and Optimization requires judgment requires the demarcation between good and bad and As you start to live in more of the white life Of the white means non-dual that there is neither good nor bad what you're already doing Your anxiety will get even better Right, and well, I mean that's that's good. I mean that sounds good. Yeah, like I mean, it's just handle an anxiety You know Not handling no Not handling no Well, i'm phrasing. Um, yeah, no, that's why i'm So this is important. So this is like what's really cool is The yogis believe that anxiety can be conquered not handled So I do think that it is good to handle anxiety But I also have found something really interesting when I work with patients Which is that if you look at things like the placebo effect If I have a patient and we both believe that the both the best that they can do is cope I sometimes wonder if i'm doing my patients a disservice by not opening the possibility in their mind of a more complete healing Okay. No, yeah that that that makes sense actually, uh, right and sometimes you got to do the opposite where you got to moderate Expectations and you got to say hey, this is what the of course because I I mean, you know Even when anxiety and that like i'm very much aware. I'll you know, i've got it for life as is anxiety. Yep. So um but you know, so um So I think that's why I just keep saying things like handle on that but even like the positive mental attitude of saying things like conquer and that like there is more reassuring because it's You're doing way more than handling there at that point, you know um And so what I would kind of say is when I when I work with people what i've sort of settled on is Okay, this is what the science tells us Is likely And i'm gonna hope for more Yeah Right, so we're gonna teach you coping mechanisms. We're gonna teach you how to cope you're gonna be you're gonna get your oxygen mask That has copium on in it, you know And get your life support, but then also off it eventually Because coping gets exhausting after a while and we really should shoot for like change And I i'm hopeful for that for you because you've already come so far like it's amazing, dude Thank you, you're too kind um, I mean, I I just know that like I compared to where I was like I know like my mental habits have gotten a lot better I know mindfulness is just a huge thing. Um, you know, even just exercise and trying to exercise on the regular helps a lot just because again, you're Thrown into the present moment with stuff like that, you know, you can't really concentrate on anything else. It kind of just Settles your brain. Mm-hmm. Yeah, um, i'm wondering if like like what would be like the most practical Recommendation or like that you could give for like chat or something like kind of almost imagine anxiety or like initial steps like we talked about mindfulness and stuff like that is there like a particular like Resource or thing that you could point people towards Like a book even yeah, so so I mean we have so I we built a guide to anxiety, which oh, yeah No, I know I know the program actually. Yeah, so I mean that's why we built it because people Yeah, we'll have these kinds of conversations where we'll illustrate concepts and and yeah, so like we have an anxiety guide, which Someone just messaged me about and was you know, they they had a very good experience with but so I think it works really well There's a bunch of meditation techniques in there We also will optimize all kinds of other stuff like we'll talk about diet and even like gut health and things like that There's all kinds of like fascinating like scientific interventions Um, we also explain things from a clinical perspective. So that's our resource so the thing the resources that we build are the ones that you know, if people want like You know 15 hours of stuff on anxiety that kind of walks you through start to finish. That's what I would recommend in your case I think you need to get physiotherapy Yeah, that's fair. My doctor said the same thing Right and and because I I just need to do it. Yeah, no excuse I mean, it's okay to have these but you know, I I think I don't like i'm just honest with myself there It's like yeah, I just gotta do that at some point. Yeah, when when do you think that point's gonna be? Soon It needs to be soon Yeah, good. I need to start looking at it that way rather than just even putting it off because I think that's even part of it I'm like, i'll do it later Like no, I need to just call tomorrow or some shit, you know Like get the ball rolling as much as I possibly can yeah And and so I invite everyone who's watching to take their inspiration from you And you're saying what are their resources sure you guys check out dr. K's guide to anxiety. It really is great, but also Like I think there's there's things that we all think about doing that. We don't actually do and then there's no like resource For that. Yeah, no, that's that's you know, and so I would say like by all means check out the resource but also You got to be super careful. The resources will help you But yeah, they won't ever do the work for you Yeah, no that that makes complete sense. Yeah, probably a bit naive for me to say Hey, what could we read to fix it? No, no, no, no, no, no. I I didn't interpret it that way I I really do think it's it's good I mean, I think it's a it's the it's arguably the most helpful question that has been asked over the last two hours And at the same time I think sometimes especially if we're talking to anxious people, right? I won't have to overcome that hump Yeah, so we can help you get 99% of the way there, but it's that last 1% that you got to jump Right. You got it. You got to overcome it yourself. So Take inspiration from you It's good though, it's good stuff honestly, yeah Any last thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day? Honestly, just thanks very much for having me and just you know having a chat and that like it's just it's it's genuinely nice like You know and just like even talking mental health in the public space like I just love the concept of that You know, I know you've done a lot of advocacy work there Of course like kind of true to streams and that's just you know, thank you very much Thank you Thank you Advocacy work there, of course like kind of true to streams and that's just you know, thank you very much It's very important. Yeah, you're very welcome and thank you because you know, we can't do this work alone like this work like This work requires you Really? I mean, I think the reason we're here is not actually because of I mean like i'm a part of it, right? So maybe 50 at tops But the reason we're here is because people come on and like share their stories and so seriously like thank you I have no problem at all. I have one last thing that I wanted to say which I thought was kind of interesting So because we were talking about male mental health So, you know one thing that's really interesting about male mental health and you were talking a lot about vulnerability and talking Yeah, so I think that stuff is really important and like i'm a psychiatrist. I have conversations with people talking is great But if you look at Emotional healing one of the really interesting things is that our system of emotional healing is based on talking And that system of emotional healing we assume that what we need to do is talk right? But the whole point is that it's hard for men to talk Yes, and so then what we say is you as a man need to learn how to talk Right Yeah So there's an interesting thing So if you really look at research what we kind of discover is a couple of very interesting things about emotional healing in men the first is that The majority of I think freud's patients. I think were women Yes, two-thirds of therapists are women two-thirds of people in therapy are women A lot of our studies are done on equal numbers of gender ratios So we usually control for that kind of thing But if you look at how did we design the study in the first place it is predominantly Psychotherapy done on women so that's just the majority of Clients have been and so there's one really interesting thing if you look at studies on couples counseling Men are more reluctant to engage in couples counseling and if you ask them why they feel like they are at a disadvantage because They were talking about heteronormative relationships So women and their therapists are more versed in emotional vocabulary whereas men have difficulty with it So there's even saying like going into it. I like men are saying right disadvantage, you know, even like the language of it there It's like it's almost like hostile hostility and resistant to it Right, and so there's something I I saw something really weird recently. I was witness to something called an anger ceremony so a bunch of dudes Went out into the woods and they like got into a circle and then they each went off like let's say a kilometer out into the woods and then they yelled really loud and they sort of like Picked up sticks and threw things and smacked things around and then they all came back in the middle And then they cried and hugged and it was very healing So one of the things that I sometimes wonder about I don't know what the hell happened there I don't know what the science is behind it. I don't know if it's effective to treat something but one of the things that i'm starting to realize is that Our assumptions about how to heal mental hurt being tied to language I think could be biased Bias on the people that so when when when freud sat down with his patients Right. He was saying okay How do I heal the mind but I don't know that he really understood that there was a bias to his answer there Because he was working with a particular population And so one of the things that I see what you're saying And one of the things that I really wonder about and i've been sort of like thinking about this more There's a lot of research on something called norman of male alexithymia Which is that men are colorblind to their emotional state and have difficulty describing it now. We sort of assume that this is a A cultural thing that is bad that men are deficient in this way But one of the things that i'm starting to wonder is since it's normative and like all men have it Are the relationships that men have with their emotions fundamentally different? And the way the most natural way for a man to heal their emotions may not be through words And i'm a big fan of words. I'm not saying words are bad Yeah, because I mean no, I mean words are definitely like they they work and they're effective in that But yeah, maybe there is just utter avenues in that, you know, like So i've never heard of that. Yeah, like that's that's what i think. I think men are very somatic, right? So if I ask you like what is exist? Tell me about existential dread if I asked you where you felt it in your body and what it feels like you'd be very good At describing that right? So this existential dread so I would even ask you when you were 10 years old and you decided to quit the sailing club What did you feel in your body? I would bet money that you felt something here And it was really really strong and this thing got control of you And so the really fascinating thing is if we look at some of these things and i'll do this with my male patients who are alexithymic I don't actually talk to them. I mean I do talk to them, but what really is healing is that i'll Help them work on their emotions in a physical way and that seems to work really well Usually you want to tie it all together. I think words are really powerful. There's a lot of good Yeah, yeah, but I think you know to be exclusive, you know, yeah, like but yeah I mean the physical like actually just manifesting in a physical way and just trying to Pay attention to that as well. Like definitely Yeah, because I can mean I because I can like pinpoint it where it's like it's here. That's where it is You know, and I almost understand in that it could be helpful And and there's some interesting mech science that sort of shows that our body and brain are like homeostatic Which means that if you mentally feel a certain way You're going to physically feel a certain way if you take away the mental emotion the physical feeling will get better. Makes sense Yeah The interesting thing is that the reverse is true If we change the physical sensation the emotion will get better. It's a two-way street. Everything in our body is a two-way street and so I think especially especially for men i'm beginning to wonder about other methods of treating mental burdens and utilizing the body more I just wanted to share that because we're talking about ireland and dudes and yeah. Yeah. No, you're right. I mean something I mean something that probably ties into that is very much a stigma where it's like sometimes in mental health, especially if like Post-relationship you had a breakup or something. What does it matter? What are you gonna do? I'm gonna go hit the gym You know, and it's like the physical activity and that and that can almost be a healing process for some folks Yeah, it's kind of you could even you could even tie that into looking at it for like just mental health And like what's actually going on there, you know, yeah, so I I think that's a beautiful example So I I think one interesting thing is if you talk to people about breakups, right dudes can't say How do you feel after a breakup you can't say well, I feel unlovable. I feel afraid for my future. I feel like You know, i'm i'm not worthy as a human being they don't say that But what you can absolutely say is I feel like someone kicked me in the balls and everyone knows exactly what you're talking about Yeah, right Right. She like she kicked me in the balls and she ripped this out and like I feel like like, you know like they'll use this very physical language and i've also seen that with people that I work with when they Are able to like when they do hit the gym and they can literally carry weight They get better at carrying weight they seem to get care better at carrying their emotional burdens, too Which is why there's such a big emphasis on this even in some of these toxic masculine Classically toxic masculine communities. Yeah But I think there's there's something there So yeah, I just wanted to share that because I I really appreciated the conversation about irish mental health and irish perspectives and yeah No, I mean that Yeah, it's just a fascinating way of looking at it like I never really thought about that too much but Yeah, it's like it's like just actual physical activity almost to bring out some of that and as a way of processing that I've never heard of people just screaming in the field and that which is like wild as a concept. Yes I mean there is a data on that so I don't I it seemed to be Healing that's the word I would use. I don't know if it's clinically if it works I didn't scare, you know the local countryside I mean it was scary too, but that was weird. It was like, you know It was it was scary. But anyway, oh god, we don't know Um, okay. So thank you very much daniel Thank thank you. No, thank you so much for having me. Yeah, and good luck with everything Do you want to just tell us where we can find you one last time before we? Yeah, uh youtube rt game twitch RT game I play the video games awesome, man Does the job? That's great, dude. So, um, check definitely check out daniel and rt game y'all and um, you know Thank you very much for everything. Are you streaming now? I might i'm not streaming at the moment No, um, but I might go live in like a few minutes or something just to kind of chill and play some games Okay, if you're going live, you know in a couple minutes Just let me dm me and we'll just raid you and if you're not live when we're, you know, then we'll Yeah, I mean Thank you very much. That's very kind. Yeah bless you. Yeah Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks so much for this. I hope you have a lovely day You too. Good luck with everything man. Thank you. Likewise. Take care. Bye