 That shame is going to interfere with that behavior and understanding of that in the present moment What is the shame dictating in my mind? What is it telling me to do? What is it not telling me to do as those emotions arise in your mind that creates resistance to action? I struggle with shame. How will coaching help? Hi using a throwaway because other people know my real account I've been in the discord for a while and attended an ask a coach event on shame. That was interesting I also watched a dr. K video on shame and I liked the explanation of how shame is the gap between my current self and my ideal self He also mentioned that coaching can help with this, but I don't understand how talking to another person will reduce the gap It doesn't make any sense in my head It just feels like I will never live up to my full potential. Also, is this the right place and time for this question? Okay, let's talk about Shame So the first thing that we're gonna do is talk a little bit about what shame is So if I had to encapsulate it, I would say that shame is the gap between where you are and where you ideally Should be so there's like an ideal self that we all have in our mind, right? I'm someone who works out and someone who eats healthy. I'm someone who wakes up on time I'm someone who doesn't waste all my weekends in front of a screen and doom-scrolling There's this person that we know we can be right because technically like I have the power to do that So oftentimes the ideal self that I'm talking about is not like a fictitious self it's not like I can fly to the moon or I can you know fly to the Sun like the ideal self that we have is or all the things that we know we can do and Oftentimes those are the things that we have done in the past, right? Because there have been weekends where I've stayed completely away from my phone There have been times where I've woken up early and started studying and gotten ahead in a class I have gotten an A on a test. So we know we're capable of it. There's this ideal self That we build for which is all of the things that we've done in the past, which if we put them all together We have this this potential to be this version of ourself There's that person over there and then there's where I am and the gap between these two things is where shame lives Right because I'm not living up to my potential So now the question is if if this is true, like what do we do about that? Right? How do we approach this problem? Because the challenge with shame is that once again if I'm ashamed of myself and I try to do something Sometimes that shame can really create problems for me So let's say I wake up on a Saturday morning and I end up studying for four hours If I'm carrying that shame with myself something's really subtle can happen Instead of being proud of my achievement. I can beat myself up for it and I can say oh my god I should have been doing this all along. Oh My god, why did I only study for four hours? I really should have done eight Right. I should have been doing this all along and I'll even be resentful because here's the problem with the shame gap Here's the ideal self. Here's where I am Even if we do this We still fall short of our goal Something really bizarre happens where progress Isn't enough Progress doesn't actually lead to positive reinforcement. All progress does is make it clear how much more I have to go And so even though I'm moving in the right direction I don't receive positive reinforcement from it and that's because of the shame that I carry with me Now some people may be wondering a little bit because this person was asking about coaching right so Because it's a good point that the person brings up which is that like if I carry shame I don't understand how talking to a different person Will fix this problem because this is what I'm capable of and if I'm over here talking about how I'm over here Doesn't actually move me towards my goal Right like it doesn't actually move me towards my goal So here are a couple of things to understand The first is that when I have an ideal self and I literally make progress This is not a positive reinforcer, right? Because I have this gap left. The gap is still there So what do I need to do? I need to find some way to get rid of this thing Because if I can start over here and I move this far Because if I can start over here and I move this far Then this is progress. This is like hey, I accomplished something today And tomorrow I can do this and tomorrow I can do this and tomorrow I can do this So this is where when we think a little bit about how coaching works coaches are going to help you all do a couple of things The first is to understand where the idealistic expectation came from because as long as that idealistic expectation is there It's going to be so hard to live up to it Right and that idealistic expectation is built up from all of these different experiences that leave an emotional impact When I get a b and I could have gotten an a that hurts and I feel a little bit ashamed of myself Right when my older brother or sister they got a 4.0, but I only got a 3.2 And when my parents compared me to the older child That makes me feel ashamed Or even more devastating in that when I used to get a 4.0 when I was a gifted kid And I was in the honors program And I got a scholarship to go to college Because I was in the top 10 in my class and now I'm struggling So the ideal self as long as that exists It's going to be hard to sort of fix that shame gap So what what do we how do we approach that in coaching we start by understanding that that ideal self is built up From a series of fantasies and as you go through past experiences of your life And you start to realize where does that ideal self come from and you start to unpack it You begin to realize that some of the ways that you were judging yourself were actually unfair Right, so like maybe you had adhd and your older sibling didn't you start to realize that because you were so intelligent You never developed a good study habit. So you have the classic pattern of a gifted kid, which is number one straight to number 15 Right, you you're doing fine. You're doing fine. You're doing fine. You hit a wall and then you go straight to like non-functional Because now your iq can't keep up It's not sufficient and you haven't built the appropriate skills So as you work with a coach like this is what they try to do is try to help you reframe things to understand Why things happened and once you understand why things happened hopefully you can be a little bit more non-judgmental towards yourself And that's where like how do I learn how to be non-judgmental the way that you learn how to be non-judgmental is someone else Treats you non-judgmentally So this is also something really simple to understand Where does the negative self-talk in your head come from it comes from the outside? That's where it starts Right. So when you have kids That are brow beaten by parents Nagged by parents always making comparisons to your older brighter stronger faster More charismatic sibling when they always make those comparisons you learn that In the same way that you learn slang and you learn the language that you speak at home You learn those that kind of self-talk Because other people speak to you that way. So if you look at some of these Relationships like therapy or coaching or even intimate friendships intimate romantic partners As people start treating you different mentors mentees as people start treating you non-judgmentally You will learn how to look at yourself non-judgmentally And by going through yourself your life historically and sort of recognizing How your shame built up over time as we start to rewrite that history Reinterpret those events the shame will start to decrease Or sorry the idealistic self will start to decrease as the idealistic self starts to decrease the shame decreases with it Because it's the gap between these two things The next thing is that coaching is really outcome not outcome oriented, but it's like action oriented It's not just about fixing shame if your primary concerns are clinical in nature or it's just to deal with emotions I would say like therapy may be more appropriate What coaching is really about is the application of that internal work towards external things That's what I really think coaching is specialized for So now the question is if you want to apply for a job if you want to apply for a promotion If you want to ask someone out That shame is going to interfere with that behavior an understanding of that in the present moment What is the shame dictating in my mind? What is it telling me to do? What is it not telling me to do as those emotions arise in your mind that creates resistance to action as we have resistance to action It becomes hard to act and so we feel paralyzed We start to feel tired. We start to feel directionless, etc So the the the key thing about coaching is it also has a very present focus Okay What are your goals and what gets in the way? How does shame interfere with it as we start to understand those things and as we start to emotionally decompress Whatever the resist whatever fuels your resistance then the resistance gets lower and it's actually easier to act And so you can't it's not sort of you can sort of fix the shame but then it's also about how the shame interferes in your life And it's about targeting that particular interaction And once we can target the shame as it interferes in the other parts of your life as we reduce that then hopefully your life starts to move in the right direction So we have an IRB approved study that's running right now We presented a study that had 1300 participants at the American Psychiatric Association in our coaching program So what we've found now is that people who are in coaching for four months or five months See a 58 increase in their sense of life purpose So people come in directionless 58 increase In life purpose We see 25 to 35 percent reductions in depression and anxiety now. This is not a clinical intervention So how could it possibly reduce depression or anxiety? And it turns out that as you start building a life as you start finding purpose And you start moving forward in a positive direction the negative emotions start to improve So we're not there to treat depression or anxiety. Let me make this very clear We're there to help you build a life and as you build a life The negative emotions start to get better and that's a statistically significant finding So how does coaching help with shame? That's how I'd lay it out Right. It's not just about fixing the shame. It's about an application Of understanding how shame affects your behaviors understanding how shame affects your mind It's about digging into those things and reframing them trying to understand where this shame came from It's even about decompressing the emotion in the moment so that you can take the actions that you want to So that resistance is not too much to deal with And hopefully that'll help Right your mileage may vary but at this point we feel really confident Based on IRB approved studies and initial outcomes data that these are pretty consistent findings And then if you really want to put together your life, you have to have a sense of purpose And once you have that north star Then other problems become easier to deal with Right where there's a will there's a way where there's a goal that you're kind of moving towards on a daily basis It makes all the other things kind of fall into place and becomes easier to tackle and that's what we really try to do at hg coaching questions Oh a lot of good questions, okay So how's life purpose measured great question. So we measure Our Life purpose based on I think an nih Patient recorded promise scale so the national institutes of health in the united states Developed standardized public domain scales So this is developed by the nih they said this is the scale that we're going to use it's not owned by anyone It's not used for a particular purpose. So some scales for example are developed by pharmaceutical companies Newsflash sometimes when a pharma company develops a scale it is developed in a particular way To be optimized for their medications So this is developed by the nih and it's kind of like the gold standard at least in my opinion of Scales because there's no bias in it. So we use standardized outcome reporting measures How do you estimate the percent of depression reduction great question, so that's a subjective report also by a promise scale So there's like a standardized scale that we can use to measure how to press someone else. These are scientifically validated Does longitudinal prove to be more effective great question topless orange up to a point is what I would say So some people get a lot of benefit in a short amount of time Some people get more benefit over longer periods of time But it does appear that overall the longer you're with it the more it helps There are a couple of other very important caveats to that data. One is that sometimes people accomplish a lot in a short time and then they're done So we actually don't have long-term data on a like a lot of success stories So the most common reason that people leave coaching is they accomplish their goals number one reason to stop coaching and so You know like it basically like it For some people it takes longer to get there for some people they get there faster But it's not necessarily like more is better if that makes sense So do I have links to the studies that you talk about during stream I would love to read them so if you all want links so a lot of the stuff that we Uh, let me so I have three ways to answer that question. The first is not always But for example, if y'all want to learn about attachment theory, you can get a book on attachment theory So I recently got let me see if I can find it This book is great on attachment theory, right so I don't know how to say this but when I like teach stuff I read this And this is not one study. I mean this is like You know, this is a textbook so this probably has hundreds of citations Second thing is if y'all want citations. Dr. K's guide has a ton of them. So that's where we do try to very exhaustively Offer a targeted bibliography to the concepts that we share. So that's the best place to find a bibliography Third thing is what i'm the data that i'm citing now is not published It's in from an IRB approved study that we're preparing for publication So it's pre-publication data, although it has been presented So vetted in some way by the apa because they have to you know, look at our data and decide whether it's okay to preliminary present At conferences you frequently will have pre-publication data that's presented Um, so if you're asking about us like our data Good question though book name Handbook of attachment It is called the handbook because it barely fits in the hand A couple of other things if people are curious Um, so just other outcomes 16 weeks of group coaching Also experienced 58. Oh, okay. So it looks like I got some numbers wrong. So Personal coachings we see a 35 to 45 reduction in anxiety in group coaching is 27 to 35 And in career coaching at eight weeks people see 25 to 35 percent reductions in depression and anxiety and a 25 percent percent Increase in confidence in the trajectory of their career That's at eight weeks. So for career coaching, we don't have quite as much long longitudinal data. It's also been smaller So we don't have like, you know our sample size for our apa Presentation was 1300. We don't have that many people who've gone through career coaching So we we seems like people get our 25 more confident in their career trajectory Jay nack. So have I made a video about what is purpose? I think so You can check our youtube channel, but we talk a lot about purpose in dr. K's guide. I think especially the depression guide Or the meditation guide So I think that a lot of like What may be getting misdiagnosed as depression is actually like a lack of purpose in life Bunzo one is asking have you read the book attached to the new science of adult attachment and how it can help you find and keep love no, I have not so I've heard good things about the book, but I generally speaking read primary textbooks or papers as Opposed to pop science books that are targeted at the lay audience. I'm not saying that the book isn't great, but You know like I just I like to get as close to the primary data as I can So what I tend to find about a lot of the pop science books is they're fantastic. Don't get me wrong But that like I oftentimes Am not Satisfied with the data that they present. It's usually like a lot more anecdotal right? It'll be like lots of stories Which is fine. It's the audience is different Mullet offlane is saying giving someone career coaching. It's a boost and of course people start to believe in themselves They would get a higher boost if you put in five thousand dollars in their account My point being that people are delusional and can be swayed in different ways I don't know what you base that on mullet offlane love the name by the way I Actually don't know that they would I actually don't know How you make that claim that if you just gave someone a cash infusion, they would feel more confident about their career trajectory that In fact, I would actually think that that would have very little impact they may reduce their stress May provide a sense of financial security But what we're talking about is career trajectory confidence in where your career is going that's built up over time I don't know that a one-time cash infusion would make people feel more confident It's an interesting point I'm just really curious what you base that on Is lack of purpose associated with lack of motivation or excitement? I would absolutely think so that too is not I'm trying to think about whether I've actually seen a study That uses a validated measure of emotion I mean motivation excitement and a validated measure of purpose and whether those two things are correlated. I can't think of one seems like simple right that the answer would be yes, but I Don't know So does your new ADHD module have insights on inattentive ADHD types So this is a great question. This may sound kind of weird, but in the ADHD module We don't focus on the separate subtypes of ADHD and there's a reason for that So if you look at the subtypes of ADHD, right there's inattentive type. There's hyperactive There's ADD hyperactivity. There's ADHD There's even hypotheses of an emotionally dysregulated subtype So my experience working as a clinician with ADHD is even if you get diagnosed with a particular subtype There's a lot of variance within that subtype So inattentive may have more of a social element Versus like a professional element. So some people will have like a bad inattention in In their professional life, but be totally fine in their social life or vice versa. So instead what we do is Rather than focusing on sort of the DSM subtypes. What we focus on is the neuroscience circuits So what are all of the ways in which ADHD impacts or ADD impacts your brain? What are the different neuroscientific circuits? How does it affect your emotional regulation? How does it affect your attention? How does it affect executive function like planning and executing action? And so my experience has been that when you take a more comprehensive neuroscience approach and you understand Okay, what are all the ways in which my brain is like being impacted by this? That's when you can really figure out a tailored strategy to understanding yourself and as a clinician That's kind of the approach that I've been working on for a long time If that makes sense It's not a substitute for clinical treatment by any means But what it is is an insight into how I think about patients Which I think is absolutely like educational which even patients should think about themselves this way To your knowledge can repeated medication in efficacy indicate a misdiagnosis of ADHD? And what I think is absolutely right is that it's not a substitute for clinical treatment by any means To your knowledge can repeated medication in efficacy indicate a misdiagnosis of ADHD? Sure, right? So not commenting on your particular case But a general principle of medicine is if the treatment doesn't work or five treatments don't work then reconsider the diagnosis That's like diagnostic logic 101 Thank you topless orange for answering North Star Warriors questions So this is important to understand When we started streaming a lot of people wanted to work with Dr. K And while I'm flattered by that What I really found was like I just can't do it like physically I don't have enough hours in the day I would love to work with each and every one of you individually And I'm not just saying that I genuinely mean it I love doing individual work Love it The challenge is that there just isn't enough time, fundamentally So then the question is like okay if I can't get to everyone So I went to a friend of mine and I said hey I'm getting a bunch of referrals like I'm not quite sure what to do about it And they were joking and they were saying yeah well like either you increase more hours in the day Or you duplicate yourself That's the only way that you can help these people They were being facetious And they were saying you basically can't help them There's nothing you can do But I got to thinking and I was like wait a minute How special am I? And I actually believe I'm not that special I think a lot of what I accomplish is not because like there's some special circuit in my brain that other human beings don't have I think it's just because I was taught certain concepts and like had certain kinds of training right So a couple years of meditation training, medical school, psychiatry residency, clinical work And also a lot of stuff that isn't clinical work So I myself struggled with playing too many games and I hung out with a lot of gamers And so then the question became can I actually teach what I do to people? And so then was kind of thinking about So I did the first one of the first things that I did is put together a continuing medical education course for the American Psychiatric Association on video game addiction Which you all can sign up for and watch if you want to I also started teaching stuff at Harvard Medical School So like started teaching stuff on technology addiction and stuff there And so was trying to equip clinicians but like ran into a slight problem Which is that I don't, the people like psychiatry residents at HMS don't have like 50 hours to spend learning what I can teach They've got to learn a bunch of other stuff Right, they have to learn about psychopharm, they have to learn about schizophrenia, they have to learn about TMS and ECT And I don't think that my knowledge is more valuable than theirs I don't think it's a good idea to have Dr. K teaching there for 50 hours So it's not appropriate, there's way more important stuff for them to learn But for our particular population there are things that I think are applicable And that's like literally why we started a coaching program Everything that we do at HG is designed based on the needs of the community, literally So the question is can I teach people what I do? Now are they duplicates of me? Of course not But I think we can teach them enough And that's what the data shows, so we started a pilot We took I think like 8 or 10 people from the community And I shared some concepts and they started working with some clients And we did pilot studies, right, so we started with a pilot study Didn't charge anything or anything like that, let's just see if this works And then since that time we've gone through 6 or 7 curriculum revisions As we collect data, as we ask people what worked for you, what didn't work for you We get better globally And then we disseminate that out and we modify our curriculum And I think part of the reason that we get the outcomes that we get is because We really incorporate data, analytics and feedback into curriculum advancements So in a weird way, all of our coaches are fantastic But the ones that are trained later I think have a more refined curriculum Which the older coaches have access to as well, so they can rewatch stuff But basically a lot of the refinements come from actually the older coaches When the older coaches will say, hey I've seen like 15 people who struggle with this Let's talk about it and then we figure things out So we try to stay adaptive and responsive to the community Do you do follow-ups to track the long-term effects of coaching, Simeon? Great question, not yet is the answer, at least not that I'm aware of Yes dude is asking, how can we make your lessons and perspectives available broadly in general school education Rather than having to stumble upon it by misclicking on an Asmongold stream Yes dude, your guess is as good as mine If anyone out there has a... So I saw a really great post a couple months ago About a teacher who synthesized one of our workshops and taught it to a group of their fellow teachers And they were like, this is really really helpful We were talking about gifted kids and stuff like that Like why kids behave the way that they do I don't remember the details of what they taught But like I said earlier, I think that health education and understanding your mind should be a basic part of education So this is true in ancient India Where learning yoga and meditation was a part of school In fact, school was taught at monasteries So you learn science and music and how to meditate and about emotions And sense organs and all this kind of stuff So this is where... I hate to break it to you, yes dude But I don't have all the answers and we're not all geniuses over here This is where if y'all have a suggestion for making... And the suggestion is like, y'all should do this Like that helps only so much So the more operationalized it is Or if anyone knows people who work on educational curriculums Let us know Because we'd love to make this a part of standard education We've gotten some interest from teachers here and there But like it's a system And like I don't have any magical power to like wave something And go talk to a superintendent of a school district you