 Dr. K is your passion the same thing as your purpose? Hi everyone lately I feel like my life is my life passion is psychology like this is the one thing that I should pursue I started thinking about pursuing it in middle school or high school, but then I thought it wasn't a good idea for a while Now I'm thinking about it again, and I'm almost 25 almost every day I think about the psychological struggles that my friends are just people like Coworkers have told me about and I'm always applying things I learned from watching your videos as well as other sources of information To to them to try and figure them out Sometimes I get lost in thought trying to solve people's mental struggles like puzzles and when I do feel like I found an answer I get excited. I get the feeling to tell the person right away because I think it may help them I do not usually try to give advice though because I'm not properly trained to do so and don't want to spread misinformation I've wondered if I I like feeding my own ego in it But I really feel like I genuinely want to help people especially with things that I managed to cope with pretty well like anxiety However, maybe I'm wrong. I'm not sure but when I Think of pursuing psychology I think about how difficult it will probably be and feel like I'm just not in the position to pursue it and It appears to be competitive. It seems like to really have a career in the field I need to get a doctorate from an accredited school. It sounds like a lot I'm barely able to take care of myself I'm majoring in IT right now and I'm struggling to balance it with my job and I'm struggling to stay motivated to continue it But I still feel like I have my own problems to fully overcome such as social anxiety and past traumas Which I think has gotten better but needs much more work. I simply Just do not feel like I'm ready to pursue it. But at the same time I wonder if I'll ever be ready and Then I think is this really what I meant to do or am I just making excuses? So great post so this is what I'll say. Okay The biggest handicap in life is waiting to be ready So everyone wants to do things when they're ready But the truth is that like readiness is like kind of a scam and waiting to be ready is the most Paralyzing thing that you will ever experience in life. So let's try to understand what does it mean to be ready? So if we look at this post what we see is this person is like I'm 25 years old So maybe some shame they've fallen behind things like that. I really care about psychology. I really care about helping people fantastic But it's a lot of work. I don't know if I'm gonna be ready and I don't even know like if I even start the doctorate Will I finish it? Like will it be good enough? Am I gonna be capable? You see all of the excuses So I want this is what I want you guys to see. Okay All positive I Found the answer I get excited I get feeling I'm not properly trained. I don't want to spread information I'm trying to help people I like helping people and then the doubts start to arise Right. So here's like a pretty honest. I don't know if I'm feeding my eating go and then he but who? My passion in life is psychology You know, I'm thinking about it again almost every day I think about it positive positive positive positive but It appears to be competitive it sounds like a lot I'm barely able major Struggling. I also have my own problems to fully overcome. You see that I'm not gonna be ready until I fully overcome my problems I wonder if I'll ever be ready right So this person is already starting with the idea that I have to be ready in order to do it So readiness is the most paralyzing thing in life Because what is readiness we look at this post and I encourage you guys to think about it when I'm gonna be ready to ask this person out when When I'm in shape, I'll be ready to go to the gym when I won't embarrass myself I'll be ready to apply for the job when I know I'm gonna get it I'm gonna be ready to apply for college when my GPA is good enough I'm gonna be ready to apply for college when I've written an awesome personal statement So what is ready what does that mean? So what is ready what does that mean to be ready it means to be free of your doubts Right because if you do it before you're ready, what is the experience? What is the state of being before you're ready? Oh, it may not work. I don't know if it'll work. What if I can't do it? I have all my crap to overcome it may not work uncertainty What you're looking for is something to wipe it away readiness is like a cheat code in life, right? It's like a cheat that wipes away It's this mythical thing that wipes away all of your anxieties and you're uncertain because when you're ready you're hmm, I'm ready I'm confident. Let's do this. Let's go Right just you don't want to resolve freakin anxieties and no I may not be good enough It's a lot of work. Like I want to be white. I want to free of all that crap I want to just wipe it away and once it's wiped away, then I will be ready once I fully overcome my traumas and anxiety I've made a lot of progress, but I'm not ready yet. I'm not ready yet. I need to fully overcome it, right? I will only act When it's easy for me My solution to success is to wipe away all of the negative things that I live with on a daily basis And then I will go I will go when I'm ready and this is what holds us back in life because you're never gonna be ready Won't happen Right. Think about this. Just think about this for a second. How can you be ready for something before you do it? It's absurd Right, like like think about becoming a parent like no one's ready to become a parent You don't know shit about being a parent before you become a parent like it's absurd Even having a second kid like having one kid and having two kids is a completely different ballgame Like so here's the thing when you have one kid There's so thankfully I'm in an intact household. So I'm still married right so like you outnumber your child So you like you think like okay I'm gonna be a decent parent because it's like me and my wife and we're like tag teaming this right so like GG kid We got this Then they get a second kid you think you're ready because you've got a kid. I have a kid They're two years old. I've succeeded in parenting and then it's a whole different ballgame because you don't outnumber them anymore It's an even game. It's like oh my god screwed There's two of them and they're both in diapers GG. Like I was not expecting this Right. I was not ready for a second kid. The truth is in life. We're never ready for anything. It's an absurd concept The only way I was winning the game of being a parent is when I had the odds stacked in my favor I wasn't ready for the second kid. I never will be and you got to have one anyway I mean not y'all it depends you got to be ready But in reality so this is the thing like being ready is the most paralyzing idea in life Because it's it's a continually being ready is the ultimate form of procrastination It's like the highest level of procrastination this idea of being ready because what is procrastination procrastination is nothing but not today That's what procrastination is right and until you're ready you have an endless supply of not today's I'm not ready yet. I need to work on this. I need to work on this. I need to overcome this I need to fully process my traumas before I apply for a doctorate in psychology. What? You don't need to fully process anything. You just need to get your ass up and apply But what if I don't get in what if it's a lot of work? What if this what if that what if this what if that? Okay. Yeah, sure. What if all of those things? What are you looking for certainty? Are you like it's not gonna happen So if you guys are waiting to be ready for something stop waiting because you'll never be ready Right on a more practical sense. Sometimes you'll be ready. I mean, I think that there's you know, like There's good reasons when people aren't ready But for the most part what I find is that being ready is just like it's the biggest source. It's the strongest paralytic in life It's the ultimate form of procrastination. So let it go If you want to live your life You can't live your life in a pain-free way if you really want to make it worth living it can't be pain-free So to this person I would say apply for the doctorate who the hell cares. What if you aren't ready? You're just gonna fail so do it anyway So you've got a choice you can live your life. So for the last year 25 years old and you've been interested in psychology since middle school So for seven years of your life, you could have been doing psychology and you chose not to or you weren't able to so give yourself Some forgiveness cut yourself a little bit of slack and also recognize that you've got a choice Seven years from now you could have a doctorate or you could be thinking about doing psychology Right and it just apply work on it. Try Give it a shot and you say oh, I'm not ready yet. So what? The consequence of not not being ready is experience. That's what you get by not being ready Could you fail? Sure. Would you could you get accepted? Sure But then you're gonna learn stuff and so then what happens I think it's good that like you're learning stuff from here, right? But it's very easy It's easy to watch our videos and like learn something from it and like try to talk to your friends and give them advice But then also try not to give them advice because you're not a trained professional. So go be a trained professional If it's what you're interested in if it's what you're passionate about if it's what you've cared about since middle school then go do it Then you say but But this but this but this but this good so then now you have your sequence of things that you have to take care of Right. So good job. You've done some of your work in processing your social anxiety You've learned how to cope with anxiety like you're probably very good But but this but that but this but that so then ask yourself this question. What do you what do you want your life to be? Are you ready to? Not be ready at life or do you need to fix everything first? Do you need to put all your ducks in a row and recognize dig into that look into like why do you need your ducks in a Row before you start doing something You know, what's the consequence of your ducks not being in a row and now we come back to it failure, right? You want everything to be perfect because if you're perfect then everything will work and then you can have confidence that everything will work Once you're certain then you can have confidence. It's an interesting oxymoron because confidence doesn't come from certainty Confidence can't exist when there's certainty If I'm playing sc2 and I use a map hack in some kind of bot to like do everything I could be certain that I'm gonna Win, but I'm not gonna be confident in my skill at StarCraft You guys get that? Confidence doesn't come from certainty. It comes from uncertainty. It comes from acting in the face of uncertainty. It comes from surviving uncertainty You're never gonna be confident if you're ready Confidence comes from acting when you're not ready from giving it a shot and learning that hey, even if I'm not ready look at this I'm able to succeed and Then you'll then you'll really be ready Then it's gonna be like GG game over and you're gonna start living your life the life that you deserve to live in the life That you owe yourself So get your ass to actually like applying and doing the things that you do and don't wait until you're ready Go You