 So I think karma can be really useful because it helps us understand like how the world works basically. So it is my belief that if you want to be better at life, you should understand how life works. That competence and ease at activities comes through understanding of those activities. So if I understand like, you know, how to control a character in World of Warcraft, like if I use WASD and a mouse, and I understand what the WK key does and what the A key does and what the S key does and what the D key does, that my success in a particular game will be improved, right? Sort of a no-brainer. And so the question is, is that true of other things? Like, is that true of life? Like if you understand how psychology works, if you understand how, you know, habit works, if you understand how biology works, do you get better at the game of life? Like if you understand the nature of procrastination and where procrastination comes from, will you do better? And I think the answer is yes. And so karma is one of the biggest things. Like, you know, we can talk about habit and psychology and procrastination, but those are all like one slice of what life offers, right? So like this is going to be psychology and neuroscience and things like that. But life has like other big chunks, right? So we can like do this. And I think that karma is over here. And I think it actually helps you understand even more than psychology and neurology and stuff like that. Because this kind of explains why things happen. And if we understand like why things happen, it becomes way easier to understand life. So we're going to start this in kind of a weird... What's the other half? That's for you guys to figure out. So we're going to start by sort of... let's start here, okay? So let's say that here's human knowledge. And I want you guys to just think about this for a second, okay? So like... Let's say 5,000 years ago, humans understood this much. And then we had this. So let's say like this is a cloud with a thunderbolt, right? And then we also had like biology. Or let's say... let's not call it biology. Let's call it illness. Okay. So like there were some phenomenon and human beings like understood this. So this is ours. And when they looked at like weather, they said like, oh, that's not us. Like we don't understand how that works. That doesn't have principles to it. This is a guy named Zeus. So Zeus controls this and there's no reason... If Zeus is pissed off, there's thunder and lightning. And if Zeus is happy, there's no thunder and lightning. And like we're not really sure how that works, but like it's under Zeus's control. And then similarly, like illness is like not something to be understood. It's like the gods or other forces that we can't control like muses or randomness or entropy or chaos theory or whatever. Like this is not something that fundamentally can be understood. So it's a question mark. And over time, what's happened as science has grown is we're like, okay, so let's do this. Like so humans have sort of covered this, right? We've moved the bar this way and now we're here. And we're like, oh, thunder and lightning are not actually... There's like no god who controls it. It's like physical phenomenon that have forces that we can understand. And then over time, we also move over here. And then we have... So now humans control this stuff, right? We like we get this. But over here are places like why or things like was. I born to my parents? What are some other things? Why am I lazy when others are not? And we look at these things and we say these are questions that cannot be scientifically answered, right? There's no like science. So like over here is the question marks. So we say that, oh, this is like it's random, right? So like a person who's religious will say this is the province of God and God works in mysterious ways. And the secularists or the atheists will say there's like there's no order to the universe that can be determined. Things are just random. But do you guys see how like whether we attribute it to randomness or God, it's the same thing. There's no way for humans to understand. Now, my first question to you is, are parts of the universe ordered and other parts? Chaos. Right? If we think about the system of science, the science say, yeah, like this part of the universe has order. So like physics has order, but biology does not. And like this part of the universe has order, but this part of the universe is chaotic. Because if we if we kind of think about it, like essentially what's happened is the chunks of universe that have become ordered have grown over time. As understanding of science grows, we've gone from disorder to order. Right? If we look at this spectrum, this spectrum over here is like growing order over time. This is order over time. Right? So like, does it make so it I mean, I'll share with you one conclusion. So like some time ago, I was very confused by like I thought it was strange that there's like sort of this arbitrary place that we decide we we look at this thing and we say, oh, yeah, like everything on the other side is chaos. But this is order. Right? So it's kind of weird. Like that just doesn't make sense to me. And so if we think about it, you know, so it's my belief that things like it doesn't make sense to me that the universe has an arbitrary point at which disorder starts like that just doesn't make sense. And generally speaking, if you look at it scientifically, any place that has been disordered that human beings have looked into over time, they start to do deduce order. And like Zeus is a great example of that. Right? Like they looked at thunder lightning and they were like, oh, that's just there's no way to understand that. It's the whim of the gods. And then some guy was like, I don't accept that. Let me look into it. And then there were all kinds of other forces that we attribute. And this is why sort of like, you know, the domain of God is kind of shrinking over time. So now we get to if there is fundamentally order in the universe and you guys are allowed to disagree with that. Right. That's like, I'm not a philosopher or anything. So maybe I'm wrong about that. But generally speaking, I think that we can have we have good evidence that human beings over time have like made ground at expanding into order or into disorder. We've been like colonizing disorder with order. And I think there's good scientific evidence behind that. So now, you know, it starts with the hard sciences, but like we're even starting to deduce order out of things that are unscientific. So like economics or sociology or disciplines where there isn't like a clear science or I mean, there is. But but it's kind of like it's like a like it's not easily observable and testable, but we can still find order principles within its function. Right. So these are the quote unquote soft sciences. Psychology is another good example. Like we can't, you know, do an X-ray or MRI of someone's brain and know what they're thinking. But there are still ordered principles that psychology adheres to. So now we get to karma. So what is karma? OK, karma is nothing more than the principle of cause and effect. So some people say that what goes around comes around, but that's incorrect. Actually, karma is not what goes around comes around. It's that every action has an equal and opposite reaction. It's Newton's second law. All really karma is is Newton's second law. It's just applied on a scale, a third law. Is it third law? Third law. OK. Thanks for correcting me, guys. Me llamo Dr. K. I mean, sorry, me llamo Espanol. Oh, shit. I was going to write second again. OK. So Newton's third law. Every action has an equal and opposite reaction. Right. So so the interesting thing is that like Newton said that this applies to physics, but karma says that this is a general principle that applies to all things. And that like it's not just physical objects that are subject to this. Karma priest like sort of says that if you have if actions have results, then all actions have results or all forces have consequences. And there's no way to escape these. And so what like so physics, you know, this this is physics. And then like we can sort of see that actions have results in terms of chemistry. And then like biochemistry. Right. So if I like mix like an alkane with like an acid, something is going to happen. I don't remember. Right. So and then we end up with biology. And then we end up with psychology. And then we end up with behavioral economics. And then we end up with advertising. So as we can see, like these are sort of the hard things to do. So as we can see, like these are sort of the hard sciences. Right. And then this is where we get into the soft sciences. But even in advertising, we know that if we elicit a particular kind of cause, like if we place a particular object somewhere on a shelf, it is likely to affect whether someone is willing to buy it or not probabilistically. So this there's there's cause and effect here. There's cause and effect here. And then there's cause and effect. So then we get to the areas where science says, oh, this is random. So like, you know, why were you born a certain way? So in my opinion, the biggest revolution in karmic understanding. So this is where people like get hung up on karma. So this is where people like get hung up on karma. So people say that. So this is fine. We call this science. But stuff like this is BS and is God and is religious and is unscientific. And so karma says things like that. What what is happening to you in this life? To a certain amount or maybe all amounts. But at least there's at least one percent chance. Let's start here. So like people say, like, all of these things are observable within this life, but there's no connection between things before this life in this life. This is what science generally believes. Right. That, like, fine, you have a particular psychology and that determines your advertising behavior. But all of that stuff is ensconced within this particular life. And then as soon as we start doing things before this particular life, we start to get into, like, the things that we don't know. We start to get into, like, hoity toity stuff and like religious stuff and chakras and crystal healing and God and all that kind of hoity toity things. So we don't accept that. And along came genetics. So I think the biggest contribution from modern science to support the theory of karma is genetics. And that may sound like absolutely bizarre, but I want you guys to think about this for a second. 150 years ago, I want you to go back in time, 150 years, and pretend that you had the same skeptical, like atheistic views that you have now. Like that, that doesn't depend on a particular body of knowledge. Right. It's like it's a view and pretend that I came to you 150 years ago and I said what you are in this life is actually determined by your parents. It's determined by something that has nothing to do with what your choices are in this life, that there is actually an order and a predictive capability to understanding how you turned out to be this way. I can predict your hair color is not determined by anything in this life and furthermore is not random. But there is actually a system of science that begins prior to where you when you were even born that is going to make a predictive capacity and shape your life today. And people would have been like, that's insane. Like there is no scientific link between anything that happens before and today. And then along comes genetics and genetics is like, actually, what you are in this life is heavily determined by things before this life that are completely out of your quote unquote control. We'll get to that in a second. So this actually is really fascinating because genetics actually, in my opinion, is one of the strongest supporters to the theory of karma. Because generally speaking, when people sort of talk about karma and how it's unscientific, they draw, they draw like a very important line between things in this life and things before this life. Right. So the theory of karma, like if you talk to Hindus and Buddhists, they'll say that things in this life are determined by things before this life. So this is like they're saying, OK, this actually leads to this. And the first scientific evidence that we have of this is genetics. And just think about that for a second. So this opens up a whole world of possibility because if we have at least one piece of scientific evidence that supports that you can bridge this gap, then like what does that say? Because then suddenly like this barrier becomes artificial. Right. This barrier is no longer here. And so what other kinds of influences from this life are we opening ourselves up to? And this is basically what karma says. All karma says, and it's not really that complicated, is that all causes have effects and all effects have causes. That's really it. It just says that if you look at anything, there is a reason why this happened and not like a cosmic moral reason, just a physical reason. If I throw a pen up in the air, the pen is going to come down. And so the problem that people have with karma, this is why karma is difficult to understand, is because our knowledge of this life is restricted to this life. OK, so I want you guys to imagine something. So imagine that there's a fence and there's a ball. There's one person on the side on this side of the fence, and there's a ball that comes down and like lands over here. Even though we can directly observe, well actually it wouldn't land over there. So even though this is the only thing that we can directly observe, we can still extrapolate where this ball came from based on this. And this is what karma does. When people talk about like reincarnation and crap like that, what they're doing is they're saying even though we can only observe like half of this interaction, we can still extrapolate like where things come from. And anyway, I think that's just kind of like I don't have a particular. I think that's worthy of further discussion, but we don't really need to get into it. I'm just sort of highlighting what theory of karma presupposes. And so I think a good way to think about this, if you guys want to understand karma, is imagine that you have amnesia every time you sleep. Right? So if like if you have amnesia every time you sleep, whenever you wake up, you only see the effects of your actions in the past, even though you have no direct knowledge of them. So if you wake up in the morning and you see like a dirty sink full of dirty dishes, and you're like, oh, like that's completely random, like, oh, I just, you know, unlucky me. But no, it's not unlucky you. It's because you didn't do the dishes yesterday. So I think if you want to understand this whole business about like prior lives and reincarnation and crap like that, like from an intellectual or philosophical way, you all you need to do is the thought experiment. Is did I say dirty dick? All you have to do is kind of do this thought experiment where you have amnesia every time you go to sleep. And like that's what people sort of describe as like karma and kind of past lives and stuff like that. So what does this mean? I mean, I think all this stuff is kind of interesting. But the question is like, what does this mean for us? OK, so so how does karma affect our lives now? Like, what can we how can we use this information? The first is that karma is a system of cultivation. Not creation. And so when you guys I want you guys to think about it this way, you want to change your life, right? You can't change your life. All you can do is sow karma. So what I mean by that is like, if I ask, sometimes I'll ask people like, how do you grow a plant? And they'll say like, you plant it and then you water it and then you give it sunlight. And then the question is, if you plant something like, let's say I put a seed down here and this is dirt and then I add water. Right. And then I add sunlight. Does the plant grow? Do we get a shoot? Right. Does that happen or does it not happen? And the answer is, we don't really know. Yes, depends. Hopefully, sometimes, not always. Right. So let's just think about that for a second. So when you guys live your life. And you commit to an action in your mind, what do you think is going to happen? Because people say like, so now let's like think think about this for a second. So I made a mistake. Like I didn't do well on this test. And like the idea is that you have a sense that you control what happens when you do something. Right. You have this idea. Like this is why you blame yourself. Because like, if it's if I didn't study enough, then it's my fault that I did bad on the test. That the action. Has a certain core like leads, not even correlation to a result. But what karma says is that you can do all of the right things. Right. Like you can you can provide sunlight and water and fertilizer and that the plant may not grow. And why is this? It's because there are other forces, which are your prior karmas. Which, despite doing all of the right things, can actually cause an action to not happen. And what this means is like it's not actually in a sense, it's sort of not your fault. Because, you know, I'm jumping around too much. Let me see if I can explain this a little bit better. So this is what I see a lot of people have problems with is that they blame themselves for not getting a particular result. Right. So like if you are a college dropout or a neat, you like judge yourself and you're like, I'm a people who are not getting a particular result. I'm a piece of shit because I didn't graduate from college and I'm not like this and I'm not like this. And if you think about that, that blame. It only works like you can only blame yourself. If you're responsible, like if you're not responsible, like if you don't control this and this isn't true, then you can't you can't blame yourself for this. This blame comes from a presupposition that you control. The result. If you don't control the result, then you can't be to blame. Right. It's kind of like saying, you know, I showed up at the rental car place and I made a reservation and I have a confirmation number. But there was a glitch in their system and their computer systems are down. So is that your fault? Like, no, obviously not. So the more that you believe that you control this part, or actually that's not right. I wish I could undo. Oh crap. Okay, they're beautiful. The more that you believe you control this part, the more likely you are to blame yourself. Because if you don't control this, then there's no like it doesn't make any sense to blame. And if we think about what holds you back when we were talking about like avoidance, procrastination and things like that. Your self blame. Holds you back. Right. Like that's true. Like you hold yourself back because like, oh, I'm such a fuck up this, this and this. You can't forgive yourself. You can't let go. You can't like cut yourself a break for being the person that you are and screwing things up. So the question is, is there some way to make it easier to forgive yourself? And the answer is yes. If you look at karma. And what karma says is that this actually is not yours to control. Like, this is crazy, man. All you control is this. You can water a plant. You can give it sunlight. And you can give it fertilizer. But. That does not equal growth. This is what you guys really have to understand. And now I want you guys to think about this. Like. What does this do for your life? If you start to think about yourself in this way. It's not even don't just don't be emotionally invested in the outcome. I'm not even going to say it's not. I'm not even going to say it's not. I'm not even going to say it's not. I'm not going to say it's not. It's not even don't just don't be emotionally invested in the outcome. Understand that like you are only capable of exerting a certain amount of control. Right. And this is the other thing that I want you guys to understand. Even when you feel like you don't do your best. You are doing your best. Right. This is the other really, really crazy thing about karma is that like karma says that. You know you. So let's say you blame yourself for like skipping a test. Because you were afraid you were going to fail. And then you hold yourself responsible for that. But what you guys aren't acknowledging is that that person. Skips test due to anxiety of failure. Right. Right. So like you have an option to move forward and take the test or skip it. But this person that you are. This is the problem with this way of thinking. OK. Is you guys think that time starts here. T zero is here. Right. You guys think like oh I should have done that. But what you guys need to understand is that this person. Is the result of past karmas. So time doesn't actually start here. Your capability to man up and take that test or woman up and take that test. Is not actually like it's not like you have a. Like you don't have like absolute control in that moment. You are sort of a product of your prior circumstances. And if your prior circumstances have not been good like never went to class. Got dumped. By someone. And. Mom. And dad. Got divorced. OK. So like if all this shit is going on like you can't really blame yourself for like skipping a test. Just think about that like. So like if all this shit is going on like you can't really blame yourself for like skipping a test. Just think about that like it's not like you blame yourselves fully right. So there's absolute judgment here. You're an absolute. Fuck up. But that's actually not a fair way to look at yourself because there's all kinds of crap. That got injected into you and some of this stuff is even things like neglectful parents. Or genetics. Or even that you were not given certain advantages in life. So I was given a bunch of advantages. So my parents for example like financially supported me when I was like 24 and not making any money or anything like that. And so when people look at my success. So if I'm if we put success over here and we make this person Dr. K. They say like oh Dr. K. is so different. He's so smart. He's not lazy. What they don't get is that I have this right. And what you guys don't get is that like you know you guys maybe had this or this or trauma in the past or anxiety. So now the interesting thing is that like so what that means is that I don't in the same way that I don't blame myself for my failures. I also don't own my successes. So I don't believe that I'm successful because I'm like hardworking and I lifted myself up by my bootstraps. You detach from all of it because if I free myself from my failures I also free myself from my successes. When I look back on my on my life and I recognize like oh I had a bunch of advantages like I was born Indian like that was a huge advantage. Why was it a huge advantage. It's because the body of knowledge that I chose to learn from or that I was exposed to I had like a racial advantage like I had a race bonus to learn yoga because I grew up understanding words that were spoken in my household that when I when I like go to an ashram and they're like Caucasian people there. I realized like I just have an advantage over them because some of these concepts are baked into the language that was spoken in my house doesn't mean I'm smarter. It just means that like they're trying to understand some concepts that like I grew up with like they're learning yoga for the first time at the age of 21. And when I went to Sunday school at the age of eight like people taught me yoga. It's absolutely like a race bonus. And so if I have a race bonus that other people don't have like how can I how can I say that I'm better and like oh like I'm so successful because like I'm so much better than you like you guys suck and I'm amazing because like I'm so smart. No it's dumb it's a race bonus like I didn't do anything to deserve that. And so it changes if you don't deserve your successes then you also don't deserve your failures. It's not really under your control. So yeah right. So like just think about that for a second. This leads to all this stuff that we want like humility and confidence and self-forgiveness and compassion and people like how do I do that stuff. I'm like oh you should learn how to forgive yourself and they're like how do I do that. This is the way that you do that. You understand this. So the next thing is this also changes the way that you act because here's the real scam. Okay. Is that according to karma you actually control all this shit. This is a really crazy thing. Okay. And what I mean by that and but we're going to focus on really one part of it is this. This is the operative thing. Right. So now what I want you guys to do is recognize that going to class is not about getting a grade going to class is about providing a buff for future you. It's not about passing the test. It's not about graduating from college. It's not about getting a good job. It's just about buffing future you. And this is what karma is karma is giving yourself the opportunity to cultivate things for yourself. You can plant a dozen seeds but you can't make them grow. So what you guys should focus on is planting seeds. But the problem is that when you plant a seed and that's your focus and it doesn't grow then how bummed out are you. You're a little bit bummed out. But if you plant a seed and then you try to like really really make it grow you're like man I want that plant to grow. I really want the plant to grow. I want to graduate. I want to get a good job. I want to get a girlfriend. I want to move out of the house. I want to do this. I want to do that. I want this to happen. I want that to happen. You're not focused on the seed. You're focused on the fruit. Right. You're focused on the end game. And then what happens is if things don't go your way then you get disappointed and the disappointment keeps you from acting. And so instead what I want you guys to focus on is like the action. Focus on going to class and change your view from I want to graduate to I want to set myself up to graduate. It's a tiny little shift but it's revolutionary. Like every day when you guys come to this webinar and you do 10 or 15 minutes of yoga that's a positive that's a positive buff. Right. These are the positive ones. Yoga. So I don't think you guys realize by coming here and doing yoga you're actually buffing future you. And then like things are going to start to change in your favor. And this is what I see time and time and time again is that when people start sowing positive karma they don't really know what the result is going to be. Like there's no clear way. When yoga is over here every day what does that lead to? Job. Girlfriend. Boyfriend. Boyfriend. Does it lead to that? No not not not at all. It's like how does yoga lead to any of that? But yoga is one of these influences. It's one of the influences that you don't see. And that what I've noticed time and time again and I've done this work now with like literally hundreds of people is that when they start doing yoga every day like shit in their life just starts to get better. And that cause and effect looks so distant that it's hard to like really see. And so what I want you guys to do is like cultivate good things for yourself. Don't do good things for yourself. Cultivate good things for yourself. Right? Cultivate a life for yourself or an attitude for yourself by like doing good things that don't have a reason like don't have a good reason behind them. I know it sounds completely crazy. Because right now you guys do things because of particular reasons and if those reasons don't pan out then you feel disappointed and stuck and you feel like it's useless to do stuff. That frame of mind leads to you feeling like doing stuff is useless. Just think about that for a second. If action does not lead to result. It creates a negative feedback loop for action. Right? So this scenario results in inaction. If action has no effect to result. What does this lead to? This actually leads to action. Bizarre. Fucking crazy. This is karma. Karma is saying sow this seed, sow this seed, sow this seed. We don't know if it's going to grow. We don't know if it's going to grow. We don't know it's going to grow. This actually leads to action. It's bizarre. Because then what happens is like this is what's crazy is the result starts to come. Right? At some point if you plant enough seeds stuff is going to start to grow. Like that's going to happen. You guys get that? Like if you go to the library and you study every day like at some point you're going to start passing tests. But the key thing is to not go to the library to pass tests. It's crazy. If you try to pass a test by going to the library you're not going to go. Good. If you don't know what to think then you're doing it right. See this is the problem is you guys get stuck in the middle of the problem. You get stuck in this negative feedback loop. This is the problem right here. Anyway. Okay. So let's is to cheat code? Absolutely. That's what I'm telling you guys. Gautama is like a cheat code because it gives you it's not a cheat code. It's a walkthrough. Right? It doesn't allow you to break the rules in a new way. It's like you know finding like a fountain in a game that makes you like invulnerable or buffs your stats. It just makes the game way easier to play. Okay. So let's do Q&A. All right. So. Ah. Very good. Annex. So Annex says this almost feels like I'm not responsible for anything. You're actually in a weird way you're absolutely right. So the problem is that we view responsibility with the result. When we think about I'm not responsible for anything we lump these two together. Right? So we think about like if we think about someone who's responsible the way we describe a responsible person is by results. We say they have a job. They moved out of the house. They have a family. They pay a mortgage. They do this. They do that. Like they think about all these kinds of things. They think about results. But what you're actually responsible for is your actions. This is where responsibility lies. Is with actions not with results. And the more you focus on being responsible for your actions and letting go of your results the better off you're going to be. Yeah. My question is if a person is in the habit of blaming themselves for misfortunes in life doesn't karma give them the opportunity to blame their circumstances. And if blame is not healthy then how do you dissolve the habit of blaming and not become a doomer. OK. Great question. So the first thing is that like so if you aren't responsible for the result can't you're saying if you're not responsible for the result can't you become a doomer because everything is sort of destined. Is that what you mean. Kind of like for example if I have a habit of blaming myself like I was I find like everything that's happened in my life is my fault because I didn't do anything about it up until this point then doesn't understanding karma doesn't that make me able to blame that. Oh it was a life's fault. So therefore it's not my fault. Therefore it's fine if I don't do anything about it. So yes and no. So this is the thing to understand. So like I don't know if you're are you basically saying that like you it's life's fault therefore it's destiny it's not me. Sort of. Yes. OK. So this is what you guys have to understand. So like you know this debate between free will and destiny that exists in the in the West. Garma fixes this beautifully. So there's no debate in karma. So what karma says is that it is your choice whether you jump off a cliff but once you jump off a cliff you're destined to fall. So karma is a tie between free will and destiny and you're absolutely right that if you look back on your life and you say there's nothing else I could have done in a bizarre way you're right. But that doesn't mean that there's nothing you can't do today. In fact what you should do is reframe that to recognize there's no you couldn't have done any better than you did but today is a new day and you can so new karma. So you don't control anything that happened in the past but in the present moment your actions will influence the future. I mean that makes sense for me but from a point of view of somebody who I was before it seems like it's a hard concept to wrap my mind around if I'm in the process of if I'm just blaming myself and then I get an out that I can blame circumstances. Sure. So you blame your circumstances. So let's think about it this way right. These are circumstances that are out of your control. So not my fault. So be it. I accept it. You're correct. Not your fault. The question is what is the next arrow that you put forward because at this point it starts to become your fault. What do you think about that. I see the distinction now I think it's a it's like a fine line but like the idea is that doing everything the only thing you can do is doing something now. Absolutely. Right. So even if we accept that the past is not your fault because you couldn't control those karmas these karmas over here was like you jumping off of like various cliffs in past lives which you can't control. So if you want to let go of blaming yourself there so be it. Tell yourself it wasn't my fault. There was nothing I could have done. But today is a new day and you can definitely sow new seeds today. So in a weird way I don't want you to blame yourself. Like if you're saying like how don't I absolve myself of responsibility. Go for it man. Unburden yourself of responsibility. Learn to forgive yourself for not achieving that which you wanted to achieve and wake up today and recognize that today is a new day and I can sow new seeds and have new results. Yeah I see that now. It's bizarre but you're absolutely correct. You just need to change. So see the tricky thing about what you're saying is they say if this isn't my fault then this isn't my fault. This is the false correlation right here. Right. This is where the nihilist or the person who's like hedonistic or has no meaning in life. This is the correlation that they make. That the past and the future are tied together but they're not. Today is a different day and the actions the karma the seeds that you sow today like it's like waking up one day and looking out at your garden and saying I have no fruit trees. And it's like yeah man like you can't wait you can't blame yourself for not having fruit trees now because you didn't plant anything in the past. But today you can plant. And whether you have fruit trees in your your yard a year from now or not depends on whether you plant today and you can even plant a dozen trees today and maybe none of them will grow. There's a chance that a year from now you'll still have no fruit trees. But when you fast forward to a year from now and you look back on your life and you're like okay there are no fruit trees. But you know what I actually planted twelve twelve seeds and I watered them every day and I gave them sunlight and soil. I did the best that I could. Okay this is what I was saying. So when you look back at your life a year. Let's say you fast forward a year from now and then you still don't have any fruit trees in your garden. Something magical is going to happen even though you have no fruit trees in your back garden. You're going to look back on your life and you're going to say you know what fuck it. I did the best that I could. So I should rest easy and sometimes life just throws you a curveball and you can't do it. The question is did I do the best that I can and should I be able to sleep at night. Right. This is a problem that physicians face when their patients die. Whether you sleep at night as a physician depends not on whether your patient died or not. Although sometimes it does you know it takes time to learn this is in recognizing I did the best that I could and sometimes bad shit happens. And the problem right now is that you guys have not done the best that you could. A year ago you didn't do the best that you could and that's what you blame yourself for. So it's not about being successful or not being successful. It's about living a life without regrets. Living a life in a way that you free yourself from blame because you give it everything you've got. And it feels amazing to give it everything you've got because a lot of times things work out and sometimes things don't work out. And if you play a game and you play like let's say I'm playing a game of Dota or something or LOL or Valorant. Right. And if I like played the best that I absolutely could and like I get crushed like that's OK. Does that make sense? Yeah. That makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. And if I if I think about what you know if I could wish one thing for you guys it's not success. What I think most of the people who watch the stream are looking for is to wake up one day and say I gave it my all. That's what they want. They don't want success. They want to wake up one day and be happy with the person that they are and be happy with the work that they put out into the world. They actually don't want a million dollars like that's not what's missing. I have an analogy. I just want to make sure I got this correct. For example Dota analogy you can try to push a lane and kill creeps but you don't guarantee whether you get the tower. Absolutely. Is it is that. Absolutely. Right. Like so you don't respond. You don't determine when you're pushing a tower. You don't determine whether they five man rotate to defend it and gank you or whether no one shows up. You just have to do the right thing. Yeah. Thank you. OK. Next question. Hey Dr. K with them. Just get a mute stream. Hey man. OK. Hey. So my question is or just like to give you a quick background. Like I feel like I have a lot of grief related to those past Carmas. Sure. Because because I feel like I mean in essence I feel like I've lost five years of my life. Like although although something good is like coming out of those years where like like you mentioned in a stream earlier I feel like I'm not building building my foundation on a house of cards. It's like a stronger foundation coming from it. Good. But I guess my question is like how how is karma different from setting up good habits like like. Is there a difference between the two like just focusing on building good habits that might set you up for success or like just a concept of karma like what's the difference between them. There isn't. Right. So like a good habit is the fruit of a karma. So if I wake up and I do yoga every day the action that I do is yoga on a daily basis or it's not even a daily basis. All I can do is yoga today. If I do yoga today and then when tomorrow rolls around I can do yoga or not do yoga. Like when does it become a habit. Like what is a habit. How do I find a habit. Like what is that. Show me a habit. Is that a rhetorical question. Is that a rhetorical question. How do I know whether something is a habit. I'm just using using like this habit bull app and I'm like it says it takes 66 days to build a habit. I know but I'm asking you what is a habit. Like I feel like for example I want to make yoga a habit for me where it's like I do it every day. I'm not asking you what you want your habit to be. I'm asking you what is a habit. Okay. It's something I do every day regardless of what it brings me. Okay. So does that sound like karma to you. Yeah it does. Okay. So maybe not the everyday concept but like. Very good. Excellent. So this is the main thing that you need to understand. A habit is not something you can have going forward. It's something that you look back on. Okay. I'm not sure I could follow. So like a karma karma is about action in the present. Right. And habit is is is like it's kind of I mean there are some things that are habit but let me put it this way. Like you said you notice that you pause at the word every day. It's something that you do every day that you know that is relatively easy for you or whatever. But the key thing the key difference between habit and karma is habit is like you don't you can't have a habit going forward. You can have a habit when you look back. So when you look back and you take actions on a daily basis without the exertion of willpower that is what we call a habit. It's an automatic behavior. Oh yeah. Yeah. Right. How's that different from karma. It's different because karma is about the present and a habit is about the past. You can't have a habit going forward because you have no idea what you're going to do tomorrow. It feels like karma maybe covers your mindset as well whereas habit is like just the action itself. Yeah. Well I think karma has a lot to do with mindset. And so let me let me put it. So your question was is habit different from karma. So I think some people got what I was saying about a habit is in the past. But so I'll put it this way. So if you so if you take the right actions on a daily basis one of the fruits that karma can bear is something called a habit and a habit is the capacity to engage in a behavior with a relatively low investment of willpower or even like an automaticity to it. Like a habit is like an automatic behavior. Right. It becomes easy once it becomes a habit. And I think habits are built through karmic actions. OK. So karma is like playing the seed for the habit to grow. Yes. And then the habit is also a karma for future you. So this is what karma says right is that there are causes and effects and effects are causes. It's a it's a loop. It's not linear. So if I throw a ball up in the air and then the ball lands on the ground the next time I walk into the room the ball is going to be on the ground. Right. And then then I can pick the ball up. So all things are tied like causes lead to effects and effects in turn or future causes. Does that make sense or no. I like to be honest I'm not getting it right now but I might I might listen to this. No let me let me explain it. So let's let's spend time on this. OK. So let me think let me show you something. OK. So let's say that I study every day at the library. What's what's the result of studying every day at the library. I'm like a good study habits. So like if a test comes you you don't have to like take radical change to great care for it. You're you already know good study habit. So let me ask you something. So we can sort of say that a good study habit is the result of the karma of studying every day at the library. Right. Fair. Yeah. OK. So now my question to you and what's your name buddy. Simon Simon is that does a good study habit. Is that a cause for future effects or is that the end of the rope. For me personally that feels like a like something for future effects. Absolutely right. So then you you graduate from college let's say. OK. So now we can see that the good study habit is both an effect and a cause. Do you see that. Right. So like what's the relationship between karma and habit. A habit is just one result that is also like a future cause. But at the end of the day like so this is this is exactly the point is that if you think about current you and what kind of action you take if you've got two choices right. To take act in a good way or. That. Act in a good way or. That current you is the result of prior karmas. And so like good study habits go here. Let's say gaming goes here. Right. Because you stayed up too late and then like let's say this is do you go to class. And this is yes and this is no. So do you see that like in this scenario. Your prior actions create the you that exists now and shapes your likelihood to take actions in the future. Do you get that. Yeah I know. OK. So like where do habits come in because habits are the most important thing. So like where do habits come in because habits are created by prior karmas. Does that make sense. Like whether you go to the library every day or not determines whether you have good study habits. Yeah yeah that like past karma has an effect on your habits today. Absolutely. So then do you. So what's your question or have I answered it like. I got the sense that your question is what's the relationship between karma and study habits. And this is sort of the answer that I have for you is that karma shapes your study habits. But then your study habits are in and of themselves a karmic effect for future you. So they're intertwined. Absolutely. OK. Yeah I get it. So that yeah. So my habits will become my karma for my future self. Exactly. OK. And so the way that I want you guys to live your life is to build karmas for your future self. Don't become a don't develop good study habits so that you can graduate. Just set up like try to help out like if you ever played a game like you know wow where you create an alt and you send money from your like prior character to your like alt. You know what I'm talking about there. Yes sweetie. I'm trying to teach people on the Internet about karma. I don't know why. That's a good question. It's OK. She can say just hold on. OK. Hold on. It's OK. You can say OK. So I'm going to give you guys one last gaming analogy and then I got to run. OK. So in World of Warcraft you can have a high level character who makes money really really fast and then you can create a new low level character. And then the money like the low level character earns money at a far slower rate than the high level character. And so what I want you guys to think about in karma is like when you have a high level character you can send stuff from your high level character to your low level character. And it really accelerates your growth. And so what I want you guys to understand about karma is like sowing good karma is like sending stuff to your future self. So you're like setting up your alt for success or failure or an ease of success or failure down the road. You guys get it. I don't know if that makes sense if you don't play WoW it can be hard to understand. Yeah I think I finally get it. OK. Good. Thanks for asking Simon. I got to run guys. But thanks. Thanks for asking your question man. Thank you. Thank you. OK. So compound interest is absolutely right. So one person says compound interest. So I want you guys to understand this very clearly. OK. The difference between and I mean I say I keep on making comparisons so maybe that's not good. But the difference between me and you is not that I'm smarter. The difference between me and you is compound interest. Right. So like I'm older than most of our audience not all of our audience. So the difference is I started investing things at the age of 21 and I didn't even see a result until like 2010. So I went to India at the age of 21 and it took nine years for that to bear fruit. 2010 is when I started medical school. OK. And then that in turn has led to the bearing of all kinds of other fruit. Right. And so so give yourselves time and don't worry about moving out of the house and other things like that. Just focus on building that compound interest. Set your future you up for good things through karma. And if those things happen great if they don't happen don't worry about it. Just continue investing continue planting seeds continue planting seeds hype. And then eventually stuff will start to grow. OK. So if you're 30 fine so be it. I started med school at the age of 27 or something. It's OK. It's not the end of the world. All right. Let's go ahead and who do we want to raid. We want to raid you. You're. OK. Looks like we're raiding my two year old.