 Hello, sir Hi, how are you? I'm doing well. It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm alok. I'm known as dr. K alok Yeah, what do you go? Uh, well, my name's dantas. Okay and And so I don't know exactly what we're going to be talking about today But just to make sure we're clear i'm not your psychiatrist I'm not going to be diagnosing you or treating you for anything But i'd love to have a conversation with you about whatever the hell you want to talk about All right, perfect Um, what do you yeah? What do you want to talk about today? so I feel like for a very long time i've had like problems with Insecurity, okay, where I always feel like no matter what I do It's never enough and no matter like how much i'll grow or how much i'll invest my time into like my grinds or my goals Or whatever it might be that Not only is it never enough but that it will also never be enough for anyone And because of that it's always been a thing where I like always push myself to like my literal limit because of you I guess like my body As just like a way for me to like grow and to progress my goals so that's why I always like push myself past my boundaries and all these things because it's almost like The only thing that really matters to me is achieving something Okay So it sounds like your body is a as a vehicle or a tool for your ambitions exactly and what are your ambitions? To be the best at everything I do Okay, so just like in every sense of the word like let's say when it comes to the gym, right? It's like to get the best body that I can possibly have When it comes to streaming to become the best shimmer I can possibly be when it comes to my game becoming the best player that I can possibly be and it's just to Like literally become the best at everything Okay um The okay, give me one second. I just realized I may need my ipad Yep Okay, because we're gonna map some things out for you All right, and okay so best at everything you do. So tell me what what game do you play or games league of legends? Oh damn. Okay, so I see. Yeah, and how's how's that going? Um, I mean, it's good like i'm a consistently Challenger player which is the highest rank Um, my goal is to get like the literal highest rank which should be rank one so that's why every every so often i'll have like coaches come to my stream who like Kind of teach me more things about the game and then i'll also like play like 12 hours a day stream like 12 to 13 hours a day just like grind as much as I possibly can to improve Okay and Why do you want to be the best? I don't know. It's just It's just one of those things where I guess it was because when I was younger I grew up as kind of like the the the fat kid, right? and I remember I was also like there was also a time where I first started playing the game and Back then I used to be like the lowest rank right? So it was bronze and as time went on and I noticed that my I guess like my physique would improve or my rank would improve That it would seem that more people would I guess want to Interact with me more people would want to be I guess like friendlier with me So then it just got to a point where I kind of found it synonymous with like growth and then also like People's perception of you also becoming better if that makes sense So then it just always made it so I was like well if I don't necessarily interact with all these people And instead I just keep focusing on growing and growing and growing then I guess not really in like a revenge way that you take away your ability to interact with them Which is what they want in pursuit of like your goals and other things But just more so of a thing where you always make yourself the priority Okay So so so i'm hearing Can I think for a second? Yeah You're very good with words um, you're Very insightful i'm guessing you thought a lot about this Yeah, because so back in the day, um, whenever I would end my streams Uh, what I would do is I would just sit there and I would do introspection for like hours every day So I would have a thought like let's say let's say I thought like an apple, right? And I would think like what is my reaction to the word apple? And then let's say it was negative then I would think of like all the individual constituents of like what an apple is Right, so like its color its shape its size its taste And then I would try to think back to all my I guess interactions with everything In the past that could have led me to having that negative perception of an apple now, right? So I would always do this for like hours every night until I got to a point where I'd become very I guess Not really knowledgeable about myself, but just more so have a very in-depth understanding of like why I am the way I am Bro that is fascinating Thanks, can I just process for a second? Yeah, sure. Okay So many questions. Okay. Hold on a second. Give me give me give me a sec because you're so introspective It's interesting because just in your opening statements, there's like so much there So i'm just trying to organize like how we're gonna understand what the hell is going on Yeah Okay Let me start with this. So you said you used to do this every day how This like like thinking for hours every every night you said, yeah How long were you doing that? Years because so it started when I was uh 16 because i'm not sure if you're familiar with destiny. Yeah so At the time I would watch a lot of the creator the creator. Okay both Yeah So it's because at the time I used to watch him a lot And one of his big things is like understanding why you hold the views that you have So every night what I would do is I would listen to like three to four hours of his debates and after listening to his debates, I would just kind of like Ask myself. What do I think about the things he's debating and then I try to understand why i've come to those like beliefs So I was just trying to find out all like my foundational beliefs for the views that I had and then afterwards, um when I had like more time, I guess like Becoming a content creator that's when I translated that and instead of just understanding my beliefs I tried to Using that but for my views instead. So like my views on everything my views on life in general on like Relationships, um friendships stuff like that and then that's how I just kind of got that like understanding Okay and Can you tell me a little bit about your views on life? Uh in what sense? What are you doing here bro? I don't know. I mean that's the weird thing. It's just one of those things right So I kind of view life as a video game, right? Okay, and I view myself as like a video game character where let's say right now i'm like level 21 And I have all these stats like strength intelligence speed, right and My only goal is to make it so that I can upgrade my character As much as I possibly can so That's one of the reasons why i'll like play league as much as I do or i'll sit there and i'll like work out as much As I do is because every time I work out I view it as like i'm upgrading my strength, right? Every time I play league I view it as like i'm upgrading my gameplay my intelligence And I just want to kind of like max out my stats Okay so um Awesome, man Okay And you mentioned that you grew up as a fat kid Yeah, can you tell me a little bit about that? so Actually quick question. So you're sure you're using your headset mic, right? um Let me just make sure with this word hold on uh Voice and video dude, this is gonna be great I'm so excited. Yeah, everything should be good. Okay, it says headset mic. Yeah, okay. Perfect Okay so, um my upbringing was a little bit weird because I grew up on a boat so, uh when I was five my parents had taken me out of school for two years and we had lived on a boat for two years and we were just kind of like sailing the caribbean and It was there that I mean, I never really viewed my weight as any kind of thing. Um, but I did gain a bit of weight like there But then it was kind of like when I got back that I I was not that I was like super obese, right? But I remember being in grade school and having people ask like oh guys How much do you weigh and then you'd have a kid that would say 70? And then another kid would be like, oh I weigh 60, right? And then I would sit there and like lie because I knew that my weight was the only one in the triple digits So instead of saying 100 i'd sit there and i'd say like oh, yeah, like i'm 90, you know so My weight was always something that was like a bit insecure about um and It was like that for a few years until when I was 15 I remember that there was this time where I had just sat there and been like I I want to make a change just like For attention or whatever. Also might be like just have a better body in general have a better view of myself. So That's when I was 15 and I know it was like bad But at the time I had started myself for a few months and then I had one vegetarian for a few months And then after that is when I started like my weightlifting journey So when you said that you um Wanted a better see when you were 15 you decided you want a better view of yourself. Yep What was your view of yourself when you were 15? Well, it was just one of those things where Like my high school experience right I wasn't the popular kid like people knew me but they knew me I was like the weird kid that would ask weird questions, right? Um, what so I would never be it What what kind of questions would you ask? Oh, um, well, so so for example, right, um We'd be in like a science class and then the teacher would talk about like let's say how As you age your dna like shortens and that's the reason why like people die so I would ask the kind of question where I'd say if you were to like in game make a weapon of mass destruction where you could like shorten people's DNA with like electromagnetic frequencies Could that be a possible weapon, you know? And they would always like look at me kind of weird um But it was just like that's the way my mind worked Like I would always kind of like think of the absolute extremes of everything and then try to like really figure out stuff And how did people respond to you when you were trying to figure out stuff? They would laugh a lot of the time like they would sit there. They would be like, oh here He is asking his dumb questions again Um and things like that But my mom was always like super supportive of it because she would always tell me how like there was one guy When she was in high school who everyone thought would always ask the dumbest questions But then he grew up to be like a neurosurgeon making more than all of them So she was always like if you're curious about everything just like always ask always inquire never like hold yourself back and whatever others might think is dumb just like You like If it's pertinent to you then You understand that right? Yeah, okay. So it sounds like your mom was supportive of you asking dumb questions. Yeah And can you tell me a little bit more about your mom? Uh My mom very very driven, um she would always like she has because my mom and dad they're still together and She like worked as a police officer And even working like full-time she would still always like cook meals at home for me and my brother Um, so I grew up with like a very kind of like normal family like there was never really any issues Never really any problems, um Obviously we'd have like our arguments. My mom was my mom was always more of like the stubborn parents Um, whereas my dad was more like laid-back one So there'd be that but it was like a very normal upbringing Okay, and can you tell me a little bit about your dad? Yeah, so my dad, uh, we have a very close relationship too. Um, I view both my parents as like friends Uh, so me and him like will watch shows together Uh, he also uh worked as a police officer for like years that's how he had met my mom and yeah, he's a very like Very as well, I kind of driven guy. He would always do um humanitarian missions like in rwanda or haiti Um as a peacekeeper So it would it would be like a lot of stuff like that Okay Wow, dude, and how did y'all end up on a boat for two years? So it was because when my dad had rent my mom they had made this For some reason I think it was like my dad had let my mom in on his idea And then my mom kind of was like, okay Where he had always wanted to like go on an adventure and live on a boat So when we were in kindergarten or when I was in kindergarten and my brother was in second grade That's where my parents said, you know, it's now or never so my dad took his early retirement Uh, he was in his early 40s Uh, no, I think late 40s because he turned 50 on the boat So he was in his late 40s. So he took an early retirement and then we uh took out a second mortgage on the house And we rented it out for that year and then he bought a boat and we sailed for two years from florida to granada And how old were you when that happened I was five What what did you? What was that like for you? so It was an extreme like I mean, it's not the kind of experience you'd ever like have normally at that age, right? So for me, it was very cool because I was able to experience many different cultures I was able to experience many different like walks of life like I would visit some cities or some places and You know, there would be some kids who wouldn't even have shoes, right? and Um, so I was exposed to like a lot of these things and a lot of these like kind of like concepts. Um at that age But the one thing that it also introduced me to is the sense that everything was like temporary Because normally when you're a kid, right? You'll have like your friends and then you'll have your school and every day It's the same kind of routine the same kind of like environment But when you're living on a boat, it's a bit different because what happens is that you'll be there and you'll make a friend with a guy and you'll become best friends with this guy, right and You'll sit there and he'll be your best friend for like two weeks and then after that you'll never see him again So you kind of need to come to terms with the fact that not everything is permanent at a very young age I'm gonna need another second to think yeah So What do you think about that that life is temporary Well The I wouldn't necessarily say life is temporary so much. I would say that everything that you do is temporary and I kind of like that idea in the sense that it means that you always have the capability for growth or change um But at the same time the one kind of thing about it And I guess this is the issue that I have like with relationships Is that it makes you view everything as temporary. So then you always need to be constantly improving Because if everything's changing and you're saying the same Then everyone else is improving around you you're not so then there's a high chance that you get left if that makes sense and what yeah makes a lot of sense, so it's it's almost like a An endless competition Yeah, we're like a race Yeah And help me understand what's what happens for the people who win? What do you get? Well, I mean ideally for me right one day it would be that you have like a family that you would have kids, right? You'd have a very nice circle around you stuff like that What about league of legends or physical You know chadness Oh, oh, so I got I got I remember the the absolute end goal. Yeah, I didn't mean the absolute end goal Yeah, so I mean so like that's the kind of issue with that is that you can't really become the best right? So you're it always keeps you in the state where you always have to constantly improve You always have to sit there and you always have to improve your physique You always have to improve like your gameplay. You always have to get better And there never really is a point where it stops because it can stop since it's an ever-evolving thing Yeah, so that's what's kind of what kind of confuses me is like I ask you like what what's the point of winning the game of life? You're like having a family and having kids and having friends and then yeah, but It sounds like the way you're living your day to day, which i'm not trying to criticize in any way So please don't take it. I'm just trying to understand It seems like that's not what you're thinking about or how are those two things tied together? So I guess the way that I see it is I view it as a thing where now that i'm in my early 20s And I have this like drive this motivation this passion that I can use all of these attributes to really just like sacrifice in the short term and Like just put my everything on my grinds and all these things so that one day I can come to a point where I feel like Okay, if I want to take time off to connect with my family or to maybe pursue something Then i'll be able to because I already went through that grind And what are you sacrificing in the short term? Well, I mean so for example, like my day-to-day life is I'll wake up. I'll shower I'll work out I'll stream for about 12 hours I'll sit in my chair for a bit and then I go to sleep and the only thing that I really do is like I might respond to my response like friends write on Messages because I always like to respond to messages, but I mean i'm living with my family I don't really like hang out with them that much. I live in the same city I was like my friends don't really like meet up with them that often. I don't really like do anything apart from I guess grind Okay, thank you for explaining what your day today is like i'm still gonna stick with the same question. What are you sacrificing? I Guess I mean I guess that's a good question because it's not really so much of a sacrifice as it is that you're prioritizing one thing over another right Um, so I don't I guess I wouldn't really say that i'm sacrificing anything because at the end of the day You're just making a short-term not necessarily sacrifice, but a short-term Investment is what I guess I would call it and then in the hopes that later on it pays off And what kind of payoff are you looking for? Well, i'm just hoping that like one day I can sit there and be 30 and if I wanted to take off a few years, right to Like uh just spend time with like the family that i'll have right with my wife kids stuff like that that i'll be able to And i'll be in like I guess a secure enough position that anything like that would be a possibility Okay Did you like being on a boat with your family for two years? Yeah, I mean it was cool because me and So that was like one of the times where I would always kind of use my imagination right because since you don't really have other kids To play with I'd play with my brother sometimes but most of the time would just be spent like me Making up these like make-believe battles with my toys or stuff like that or there would be times where me and my brother would play On the game cube we'd play video games stuff like that every night Every night, uh us and our parents we'd watch like shows on the little tv we had So it was very like um, it made our family very I guess tight-knit and very close Is that something you want for the family that you're gonna have one day? Yeah And and if you're 30 years old and you wanted to take a couple years off, what do you what would you want to do? Just Be able to really sit there and I guess like appreciate the moment because like let's say When you do have kids, right? They're not gonna be in that like young developmental state forever So I guess being able to spend as much time with them while they're in that state and being able to I guess create as many memories as possible would be like a pretty Good experience. Okay. So it sounds like you're making you're prioritizing Grinding success So that you'll have freedom To spend time with your children, so it's kind of like what it sounds like really freedom is what you're looking for Yeah, exactly. Yep and that's one of the reasons too I love streaming so much because When I was in school, the thing that I hated was feeling like I had to study right? So I just didn't or I hated feeling like I had to do homework. So I just didn't So that's why the cool thing about streaming is that it's one of those things where you can kind of like choose your hours You can choose like what you want to do so It gives you the option to really have that freedom even though you're still like I guess working having this job, right? It gives you I guess a little bit of leeway that makes it feel like okay I like I could do what I want when I want So i'm hearing that you So i'm guessing that you don't feel shackled To the stream right? You don't feel like you have to stream every day No, because so the thing about me is that the thing that I love about streaming Is that i've always loved the idea of like sharing experiences with others like I was the kind of kid where let's say when I was younger me and my dad were to watch family guy, right or something like that um We would sit there and if my dad would go to the bathroom i'd pause the show Because if anything funny happened and he wasn't there to experience that moment. It's almost like that funny thing never really happened So the cool thing about streaming is that if i'm able to like share a thought or share an idea or make a cool play Then it's almost like that play is alive because there were other people around to experience it Yeah, wow, that's really are you are you like a like what are you like on stream when you play lol, are you like positive and pma are you like a Um toxic challenger player or what? I'm like a raging schizo. Okay, I guess so Yeah, so I guess like my thing is that I'm a bit Don't not get chat. Can you guys chat? Yeah. Okay, so like What I would say is i'm very like psychotic. Um Because the thing about me is like i'll say crazy things, right? Okay so I don't really have like a filter when it comes to league and the thing is that I'll just say like whatever comes to mind And it's kind of like giving me this I guess view Within the community that i'm just like this like really crazed guy like uh Most of my clips right that get the most amount of views are the ones where they make fun of me being the most mentally stable League player because the perception is i'm the most like mentally unstable one And and what what kind of stuff? gives them that Perception like i'm i'm having trouble imagining So a few days ago, I had a guy who was like playing really badly in my games So I said that if given the option from god between saving 5.5 billion people or just making it so that this guy never had access to the internet again He would never cost me a game again, right? So it's just things like that. So very extreme stuff. Yeah, exactly. And as you're saying this adanthes Are you noticing emotions arise within you? Like what kind like are you feeling anything right now? Uh Maybe a bit of like nervousness, I guess but besides that not really did you feel nervous like five minutes ago? Um, I mean whenever i'm so like that's the thing about me It's whenever i'm in a new setting talking to like a new person or in this case like interacting with a new shimmer who has a New community. I always feel like a little bit nervous because i'm not really like a super outgoing guy Because i'm not really like a super outgoing guy Um, but once I start to feel comfortable, that's when I start to like open up more and feel like a lot better, right? So as like the minutes go by I feel like less and less nervous But at the beginning it was just like a little okay. Yeah, because I I think that you know And you're okay with being Whatever like what would you call it? A skit? So site? Yeah. Okay. Look so that's okay with you, right Yes, but okay i'll explain it it's because My dad told me this one thing many years ago Where he said don't us at the end of the day people will forget what you say They'll forget the things you talk about they'll forget the promises you make they'll forget everything but they'll never forget how you make them feel So that's why it's just one of those things where I don't necessarily care what my view is in the scene So long as I can make people laugh because I realized at the end of the day being an entertainer The number one thing that I have to do or the number one like obligation that I have is in my community to entertain So that's why like one of the biggest things that I got a lot of traction for uh, when I was like a very small Shimmer was that in the game I play there are these like three foot tall characters Almost like dwarves and I would always talk about how I wanted to like impregnate or sleep with them so when I started talking about that people started like being like oh, you know like That's crazy, but then it's funny because over time less and less people remember them They just remember the more like relevant things so you're able to make people laugh While also realizing that whatever view they're going to have of you as long as your content is continually progressing That view is always ever changing and ever shifting as well Okay so i'm getting the sense that a lot of things that you say have a I don't get the sense that you're like out of control and that you're like because you seem to me is a is a super kind of like genuine positive guy Loves your family pauses family guys. So your dad doesn't miss a joke Yeah, it's on a boat Makes friends with kids in granada who don't have shoes So that's the thing is um So what had happened actually is when I was a very small shimmer think like maybe 22 up until I was about 100 viewers I was was very toxic on shame And there was this point about I think it was two years ago now Where I was e-dating this girl online for about five months And after five months she decided to break up with me And one of the reasons why she did was because she said that she felt like the way I act online isn't really who I am And she was like, I don't know why you pretend to be this like tough guy Why you always like will make threats or like say all these things when that isn't you? and after she had told me that that's when I started to really take a step back and realize that I was acting in a way that wasn't really me and ever since then i've always tried to like stick true to I guess like who I am Okay And can you tell me a little bit more about dating and relationships if you're comfortable talking about that? Yeah, um, so my first Ever okay, so in high school. I didn't even so much as like kiss a girl, right? um, I had my first kiss when I think I was 18 or like 19 something like that And the first actual relationship that I had was three years ago with a catfish So at the time my name was doano And this person came to my chat tier three sub changed their name to doanella And pretend to be a girl so I would get in calls with them for like six seven hours a day um, we would like message each other for like hours and hours a day and Then I realized after a month of it happening that it was like a dude with a voice changer So that was a bit shitty because I was like supposed to fly out and everything I took like the next semester off as well to like like uh take time off to like go and visit that person Uh, because it was like this weird situation where they were giving me a lot of money And they also had this other person that was corroborating everything they were saying so I thought it was real But then I found out later that that other person corroborating everything was just them on a second account And like when we'd get in discord calls as three of us It would be like them with two push to talk headsets like talking as two different people Holy shit, that's sophisticated Yeah, so that was three years ago and then two years ago, how did you figure that out? um, so it's because I was supposed to leave to go uh, visit them in early september and In late august my mom said okay. Look, I don't mind if you go but I need to like know what's happening because I don't like if anything ever happens to I need to know like who to contact So she was asking for like phones parents names parents phones company names like everything That could possibly be I guess like tied down with this person And then since she was like a cop at the time she was able to like verify a few things So she called me like one day after I gave her all the information and she said The phone numbers are burner phones. The addresses are houses for sale. The names don't exist, right? The apartment they said they live at the people i've never heard of them So after that I entered this kind of like depressive cycle or depressive arc, I guess for a few months Because at the time no one in the community really liked me and I didn't really have any friends So then I felt like the one thing that I did have which was this girl. I didn't have this either anymore So it just made me very down for like many many months until I reapplied to go back into school uh in november and then when I got accepted I felt like okay nice like I actually have like my future again. So it Amped my mood up a bit and then it was a lot better for me What were you what was it like to talk to someone for like six or seven hours a day? So It just felt like there was someone that was there that you could always like share things with you know, and the thing is that I Share a lot of the the ways I feel or like the ideas i'll have with my stream But having like an individual person where you sit there and like you share things with them And then they share things with you and you have this like mutual exchange. It's a different kind of feeling So it felt nice and it felt like I was comforting Um, so that was cool So i'm getting the sense that you know, really authentic connections are very important to you Yes Yeah, so like that's the thing about me is that Nowadays i'm the kind of guy. Um Where I could be talking to someone for like three months, right? And if they'll tell me a single lie i'll block them the next day and never look back why so because It's just one of those things where I just can't stand dishonesty like dishonesty is just one of the things where I've been lied to so many times in the past by so many different people and have had my hopes up so many times That now i'm just at a point where if I identify even like a single red flag or anything like that I'm just willing to immediately sever the connection because I know it's not worth pursuing How do you know it's not worth pursuing well because if it was worth pursuing they wouldn't feel the need to lie Because they'd value I guess me having an accurate view of things over Me having a perfect view of them So if they lie to me, it just shows that they're completely self-interested In whatever they're doing and because of that I just realized that it's not worth it I think for a second. Yeah So So you're saying that it's you'd much rather people be authentic and flawed than perfect and dishonest yeah, because i've been just it's just like the whole dishonest thing is really overdone for me because so Like my first ever introduction with any kind of like relationship was the catfish and then after that it was um a few talking stages I had that ended because again like just like lying about a bunch of things And then there was the next person I dated which was two years ago who was like the person I dated for a few months And then with her like I was there willing to give anything And after like five or six months, I realized that she never really viewed it with the same seriousness that I did so then that was like more months like That was I guess like wasted and then after that it was more of things where it's like You know you talk to a girl for a month and then you realize a month in oh she has five different discord accounts where she's Appearing offline on the one she's talking to you on to go online on the other one until like five different guys the same thing She's telling you right? So then there was like that and then my relationship last year was like the nail in the coffin for me where I'd got and cheated on because I had like introduced this girl to like my family like my parents Parents grandparents everyone and then after she cheated on me, that's when I just said, all right I'm not doing any online ever again So then that's when I just kind of like stopped at the whole um talking stages online and since then i've just been kind of like completely focused on like the grind and Like I don't I haven't really had like a person that I'll sit there and talk to for hours a day since my ex like that sucks man I mean it sucks, but it is what it is because at the end of the day the amount of growth that I was able to make and the amount of like The way I was able to I guess get to a point now where I can entertain more people and brighten more people's days And also become a better player is worth the trade-off that i'm losing by talking to people that aren't authentic authentic to begin with That's one hell of a silver lining yeah Do you do that a lot I try to Why? Because I mean I realize that you can never really control like the things that happen to you um like right now if a guy were to bust into my window right and Chop my head off with an axe right like there's something I can really do about that But the cool thing is that I can I guess change how I react to it, you know so So That's why it's just like a nice thing that when you're able to control I guess like how you react to different situations You can maximize the amount of I guess stuff that you can learn or ways that you can grow from it Even if the situation itself is bad Okay, because i've noticed this thing with like league streamers especially Where there there would be like league streamers right who they used to be a very high rank And then after years of sitting there and blaming others for the mistakes nowadays They're a lower rank and the only person that suffers for it is them because they'll sit there now They'll have like lower viewer counts. They'll have a lower rank. They'll have a lower I guess way of people viewing them in the scene so That's one of the reasons as well why when it comes to league I try to take as much accountability as possible with my games and my performances Because it's when I take complete accountability for my situation in life that I feel like i've been able to progress the most and when I get in these like victim mentalities where I feel like people are out to get me or like Oh, you know This guy's playing bad that guy's playing bad and all that stuff then my streams suffer my gameplay suffers my rank suffers, right? so that's why I always try to keep myself as At the end day i'm the only one I could control so because of that I always try to I guess control how I react every situation Control seems very important to you. Yeah, extremely. I like i've never even gotten like I've gotten I guess I kind of drunk but never to the point that I like lose control of my actions I've never done drugs or anything like that either because like Control is very important to me and also like self-control is very important. So that's why it's like Losing control over my body And my own actions and my own mind is the one thing that I would never want so I stay away from all those kinds of substances Where did you learn to fear loss of control? That's a good question, um I guess I'd have to think about it more But I guess the one thing that I could look at would be maybe like when I lived on a boat on the boat, right? Occasionally the thing about the boat is that it's not like living on land. It's not like living on land It's not like if you're in trouble, you can just call someone or if you're in danger, you can call the police, right? When you're on a boat, it's you against the elements and there's nothing else, right? So when there's a storm when there's some kind of like when there are waves that are threatening to capsize your boat and these kinds of things it really is that like you can die and you can like Like you can suffer right like it's not just like there are safety nets, right? So maybe that was the first time that I encountered like an issue with control where it's like you can't really control the elements outside and the elements will impact you um I guess that's the only thing that I could really think of though Because when you were do you remember storms on the boat? Um, yeah, most of the time I would sleep through them Uh, but I remember that there were times that like my mom would get me and my brother in the Like cockpit and we would have to like we would pray right? uh while my dad was out there like searing and So there were like a few times. It was very very like serious stuff and so Was that scary for you? Um, not really because i've always had this I mean, i don't think it's about you, but i've always kind of like found myself as immortal Uh, because it's just one of those things where let's say I die tomorrow, right? I won't be conscious of the fact that i'm dead therefore for every second that i'm alive. I am alive So I am always immortal in my consciousness, right? so it's one of those things where Since i'm always immortal. I've never really I guess like feared Anything like that because it was just one of those things where I mean I live anyways, okay So I want to point something out to you. Yeah, I'm like, where did you learn how to fear loss of control? You're like well, we could die on a boat and I was like what if I die on a boat? You're like, well we could die on a boat and I was like, what was it like to almost die on a boat? And you're like, eh, i'm okay with it Yeah So that doesn't line up to me. Does that make sense? No, I get that. I mean I guess so that's why it's Because i've been fearing loss of control for a very very long time now and I I don't know like where it was when I was younger Where was your loss of control when you were younger? Yeah, yeah, okay, we're gonna yeah, I don't think it's the boat right because like Probably that scares normal people like dying but doesn't scare you Right So when did you start getting worried about control? Like how old were you when you remembered were you like so it sounds like you weren't scared of it on the boat Well, actually Okay, so there was this one thing so Back then me and my so my parents would always watch shows with me and my brother, right? And some of the shows would cover like mature, I guess content Um, so one of the shows that we watched was the unit And it was a show about like I guess these military guys that would um that would Go overseas and like fight and then it would also show like the military wives back home and I remember that one of the military wives was a cheater and It always made me very like paranoid where at that point I was like I was always thinking like is my mom cheating, right and There's this one time Where uh, I remember that she because she would always do like yoga and stuff like that And at one point she had went into her room with like the yoga instructor to practice to practice meditations and I remember grabbing a knife and then tell my mom that I was gonna like Cut myself if she didn't open the door because I wanted to make sure she wasn't cheating And then I just like cut my thumb, but it hurt really bad. So I never did it again How do you understand that what do you mean, how do you understand what the hell that was Understand what exactly Let me think about how to answer that question, okay So you're Analytical you're introspective. Yeah, what do you think was going on with you in that moment? Well, I guess I thought that I didn't have any control over opening the door since it was locked So I did have control over the fact that maybe I could pressure my mom into opening the door if I threatened my own well-being Okay So yeah, you were engaging in behaviors to Exert control, yeah How old were you when this happened? Five or six So pre-boat post-boat? Uh, this was during the boat during the boat. Okay And how did your how did your mom respond? I don't even think she realized So what happened was she didn't open the door and then I was just there and I was like, oh that kind of actually really hurt So then I got a bandaid And do you know what happened to your fear Um, I mean The fear of what of someone cheating or stuff like that. I mean, it's always been there. Yeah, it's always been there Okay Yeah, so like after that it's always been and that's like again one of the reasons why I always feel like I have to continually improve Because it's one of those things where if you are always continually improving then People I guess don't have a reason to leave or to find others because you are the best option, right? Like let's say you're you're rank one, you know Um, then why would they leave you for rank 10? You know And I guess this is the insecurity because I think the first thing that you said is something about insecurity. Yep Can you tell me a little bit about that? Yeah, I mean I've always been like a really insecure guy, um, just because it is one of those things where Uh being younger, right? So it's like when you're a one viewer streamer, right? You don't really have anyone that wants to interact interact with you when you're a bronze known wants to interact with you when you're overweight People don't really want to interact with you And it's not because of who you are but because of like the characteristics that you show show right like the surface level characteristics So The thing about me is that then when I managed to propel myself in every sense And I started to realize that oh now people want to interact with me when I have a hundred viewers or when I'm diamond or When my physique is getting better Then they're not really interacting with me for me. They're interacting with me for those characteristics, right? And how how do you feel about that? And how how do you feel about that I mean I guess like to a certain extent it's like You can't really blame most people for being shallow, right? Because it's just like how people I guess are Um, all you can really do is try to find the ones that are genuine Even though it's like a small percentage, but they're still around and then when you do find those ones and you keep them close Okay How how's this uh talk going for you It's going well. I mean, okay. I like talking about myself. So it's funny. I I love listening to you dantes Thanks. I think you're just an amazing human being Appreciate that. Um Is it okay that I said that I Yeah, I mean it's just one of those things where I don't like thinking that i'm like an amazing person or I think that Because at the end of the day I do stop like flaws and things like that and I do stuff things I need to work on so That's why whenever like people will give me compliments all the time. I'll just say oh I could be better, you know Like people will tell me like oh you're entertaining and I could be like, oh I could be more entertaining People will say oh you're handsome. I say oh I could be better, you know Like oh you're muscular I could be bigger right you're high low I could be high real Okay Do you want to be less insecure I don't know because so the problem is that My insecurity is part of the reason why I feel like I have to grind as hard as I do yeah, and The issue is that if I lose that insecurity Then would I also lose that fire? That forces me to push myself so That's why it's one of those things where Finding out how I would be able to be more insecure or less insecure would be good for me So I could unlock it later down the line But as things are right now with everything going as well as it is for like my career and things like that it's almost like I would rather keep that trait because it is like Pretty essential for why even got to where I am to begin with Yeah, I've never heard about anyone unlocking insecurity is like a positive talent trait or something like that, you know Yeah, well, I mean it's like the video game thing right where it's like you unlock the tree But then let's say you need to spend 300 gold to actually use it Well, I'll just spend that 200 gold like two years from now, right? But at least having that option will always be there Can I think for a second? Yeah, sure I've written a lot So i'm gonna just try to You said something about It's not quite revenge when people So like people didn't give you the time of day, right? They didn't like care about you and didn't give you respect or attention and then as you became more successful You started to get attention and then I got this you said something like it's not quite revenge Yeah, can you help me understand that concept? Yeah, so it's just one of those things where It's just one of those things where Imagine there's a person who sits there and he only interacts with me because of my viewer count, right? then by me not I guess Developing an interpersonal relationship with him. That is my revenge because I realized that i'm only a what to him not a who So instead of spending my time developing, I guess that fake relationship. I instead spend my time pushing myself further and further and further And it just gets to a point where that person never like They're never I guess like gratified for trying to put on this front like they're interested How do you feel about that? I don't mind it because it's just one of those things where Like in life you're gonna have very few like real friends, right? Like people who will actually care most of the time it's just people who are acquaintances Or who will view you as like something that they could benefit from so for example, right? Let's say you have a friend group And in this friend group there are 10 people And let's say two people actually really view you as like a person as a friend and they really care There could be one guy that calls himself for your friend But he only likes to keep you around because you make him laugh, right? And your comedic relief for him there could be another guy that only keeps you around because you have access like a car And you're able to like bring him places another guy could only keep you around because like for whatever other reason, right? Maybe it's because you have access to big social circle And the fact that he could be exposed to bigger social circle just by being around you is something that interests him, right? so In any like I guess like big group setting you'll only really ever have a few people that genuinely truly care And the rest is just kind of like to view you as a tool, right? So I guess my revenge is not making myself a tool that can be used if that makes sense So how how do you feel when you do that? when I do what when I don't like when you don't let people take advantage of you and you Yeah, I mean, it's just you leave those fuckers behind like you leave them back in bronze league Yeah, so I mean, it's just one of those things or it doesn't really make me feel anything because It's almost like let's say you're the main character and they're just like an npc. That's like waving at you and they're like, hey, you know like Please stop my house is on fire But you're there and you're doing the main quest so you're like, you know, I don't care if your house burns I'm chilling right so then you just leave them and you're doing your own thing, right? You're not going to think back on the npc. You're just gonna be like it was an npc so it's the same kind of thing where it's like People who only ever view me as a tool. It's just like all right. Well, I mean Just kind of leave it behind never look back kind of thing. How do you know they view you as a tool? um Because So the way that I analyze my own way of acting and my own way of being I apply that same introspection when it comes to any kind of like interaction or any relationship or thing like that And that's one of the reasons why i'm able to avoid so many bad interactions Is because I can sit there and identify every single little thing Whether it be a tonality in a person's voice a thing that they'll say a way that they'll try to broach something Or even just like a way that they'll post and word or certain thing, right? Because i've always been a very firm believer that the language that people use will give away how they truly feel right? So that was one of the ways I was able to actually realize that my last two relationships weren't going to work out Was because a few weeks before they ended um the The girls that I was dating they would start saying I me instead of us we So just picking up on these little like nuances. I was able to like really understand like, okay So now in their mind, they don't view us as a pair It's just us. It's just me and me on one side and them on another right? so Picking up on all these little things are just ways i'm able to like I guess sift through all of these things Makes a lot of sense Dante's or do you is it is it your belief perception experience that kind of the rules of life are fixed? Not necessarily Okay, what do you think? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, so, I mean, I think there are always exceptions to the role and that's the reason why um I actually I guess loved my own story so much was When I was younger, I would always read books, right? I'd always read these like fantasy novels about These like little these little like boys that would grow up in these like villages and then they would end up growing up to be the like, uh, the king of the place or like the guy who would save the day, right and the cool thing about me is that I feel like I was able to kind of emulate the protagonist I used to read about Because in every kind of facet of my life, I would always have to start out from the bottom And just through like work dedication and drive I would be able to bring my way to the top So that's why it's one of those things where if the rules of life are fixed and how could I have done that? I'm not sure to say that if you're dedicated and motivated enough for something then you'll be able to always succeed, right? Okay What what do you think about me? About you. Yeah You pay attention to tone You know voice. Yeah. So I mean, I think what's going on between us. I think you're intrigued um I don't think that you're putting on like a facade that you find me interesting I think that there are like things about me that uh, you do like genuinely find interesting and it's like I guess not like a normal talk because I feel like a lot of the people that you do talk to They don't really have these kind of understandings. So you help them get to that understanding But then since i've already like reached most of these it kind of like brings on a new layer for you Okay. Yeah and and are Are you interested in help? Okay, so the thing So the reason why I kind of like reached out right was because there will be some nights like last night for example Where i'll sit there and i'll do a 12-hour stream and everything will go good, right? Um, i'll have no issues. Nothing will happen But then i'll just kind of end the stream and i'll just stare at my wall and i'll feel empty And there's just like nothing there And I won't want to talk to anyone. I won't want to like Like engage with anyone and then i'll just like go to bed and that's actually what it feels it's felt like um for the majority of the times i'll end my stream for years now, you know where it's just like End stream and then instead of like going out and meeting up with friends, right or doing all these things I'll just kind of sit there think and like listen to music or stare at my like ceiling or at my wall, right? So I guess just I I don't know why it happens Um, I don't know like what it is like that feeling of being emptiness I'm, not sure If it's like something that is because of all these insecurities and it's just like this stream is just like a distraction Or if it's just one of those things where being able to share so many experiences with so many thousands of people That now that it's over it feels like i'm empty compared to where I was just a few minutes prior but It's never really like a good feeling to have, you know Yeah So you described an experience that you have with stream after stream I asked you if you want some kind of help I'm, not sure that those So do you want help with that? Yeah, just yeah so it's one of those things where I guess just that feeling of like emptiness and finding ways to not feel that emptiness and to still like Because even when I like let's say i'm out with friends right or something like that I'll always feel like okay. Well being out with friends is cool but I could be grinding right and i'm never able to actually live in the moment. I'm always kind of like Thinking what else I could be doing or what I should be doing in the future and it kind of like limits my I guess enjoyment um from a lot of things so Finding the weights, I guess counteract that would be like pretty good Okay, so Can I think for a second sure I Feel like i'm in a challenger level game i've been dropped into a challenger level conversation I have to I have to pause and pretend i've got some sort of keyboard malfunction so I can figure out Yeah, what moves I want to make on the map when we unpause? I'll think it as a compliment Um I think your camera just got a little bit blurry if there's anything you can do about that but yeah, okay So you're not able to really live fully in the moment still a little bit blurry if you can try to the hand swipe I know it's kind of weird. It's just okay Um, yeah, there we go. I think that's better Okay, whatever, okay, all right, it's not important Okay, let me let me try to understand i'm gonna just like kind of think out loud, okay, yeah So it's not great to stream for 12 hours and be empty at the end Yep At the same time streaming for 12 hours, even if it causes emptiness is worth it well, it's just one of those things where The the problem is is that my mind works in a way where i'll always think what I what could have gone better, right? So i'll sit there and i'll stream for 12 hours and i'll think like, you know I won 20 games today But I could have won 21 and just the fact that I could have won that 21st game and I didn't Will leave this like permanent burning like mark in my mind that I should have won that 21st game and I just didn't And i'm not able to actually enjoy the fact that I won the other 20 because that 21st was bad Okay Yeah, so like there have been times in my life where i'll stream and i'll plan on streaming for like 10 hours And then i'll just stream for 17 hours because you know, I can't end on the loss And the fact that i've just lost like six games in a row would mean that the stream ended on a bad note And I can't allow for it, right? Uh, okay I'm still hearing that that's a price you're okay paying right It is but it's just one of those things where I don't think it's necessary. Okay, so something to be optimized Yeah, yeah, so it's like it's just one of those things where Like being able to identify that things could have gone better is like a good thing and i'll always have that But I just need to find a way to make it so that it doesn't I guess impact the entire rest of the day and the entire rest of the time that i'm awake The fact that that could have gone better like if I could find a way to just identify it But not allow it to completely overtake me to the point where I feel like i'm in this emotional whirlpool where Everything went bad, then that's what I would need. What are the emotions in the emotional whirlpool? so Okay, so what will happen? Um is that when things are going like a bit bad or like let's say i'm overthinking The problem is that I get to the point where i'll think and then i'll think about the thoughts i'm having And then i'll think about the thoughts of the thoughts and all these kinds of things and so it gets to the point where it feels like my mind is my head is literally spinning and That sometimes lasts for like 20 minutes sometimes like hours And it'll just like be that way until I decide to go to bed Okay Okay Thank you for sharing that yeah Okay, so Then the other thing is that you have difficulty being present when you're with your friends Uh friends family things like that in general. Yeah, and what keeps it makes it hard Oh, because you're thinking about how you could be grinding or or things like that I mean, it's just one of those things as well where the thing about being like a live streamer Is that it's different from being a youtuber, right? Because if you're a youtuber you just upload You could set that record for five hours have content for the next five days and then for four days You'll be chilling and it doesn't really matter, right? but as a live streamer For every hour that you're not live someone else's life for every hour that you're not engaging with your community Someone else is engaging with your community So it's just one of those things where in order to I guess like be the best streamer That's one of the reasons why the people that are the best they're the people who stream for as many hours as they do because they're always able to I guess like um Harness that connection with their audience always able to like build upon it and all that kind of stuff Okay Um, and do you have any kind of experience or opinion with religion or spirituality? uh Yeah, I mean, okay, so Can I stand up and walk around for this? Yeah, sure nice. Okay, so um, my mom was always like really spiritual, right and the thing is that uh She would always like talk to me about like religion when I was younger We would always do prayers, but I would never really like go to church or any of these things, right? um And one of the crazy things right I guess like the most notable experience i've had with spirituality Was this one time two years ago? Uh before the girl that I was like dating online broke up with me. I had started seeing the number two two two everywhere And at this time I was like trying to find a way to come into the scene. I was like much as I possibly could And what happened was is I was starting this number everywhere and I searched it up and it meant good things Uh to come right? So then what happened was is I just kept streaming as I normally did And I started like hyping up my streams on twitter because I was doing this like new thing And in the span of a month my viewer count went from like two to like 800 So ever since then right every time I see the number two two two, it always precedes good events like the other time that had happened was um last year, uh, because Because What happened to me it wasn't necessarily just that I had gotten cheated on it was because I'd also had uh heart issues and Those heart issues had almost like killed me so It was one of those things where I had to like come to terms with my mortality And then also had to deal with the fact that I was getting cheated on that left me like in a really bad state and my viewer count went from anywhere from about like A thousand to like 1300 to about like five to six hundred And that's when I thought about like going back to school and I thought about like, oh, I will probably have to like re-enroll And then I started seeing the number two two two again I went to europe and then while in europe I was able to spike my viewer count from like 600 to like thousands And it like revived my stream so That's why it's just one of those things where 222 is just like one of those numbers or when I see it I I always feel like that connection with it and also because my birth date is also like 222 Because it's the february 2nd february 2nd of 2002 All right, so how do you like how does that work? So i'll like look out of your account of let's say a shimmer and i'll see 222 Or i'll go outside i'll see the price of something 222 or i'll sit there i'll look at a license plate 222 or Just like it'll be like literally everywhere or i'll be playing my game, right? And then i'll look at my end game Like timer and it'll be 222 And there was even this one time uh, sometime recently where I had done this stream and the stream had had ended At exactly like two hours 22 minutes, you know, so just always seeing this like sequence of numbers Yeah So it's just like like that. So do you have a sense of like how that works like in the universe? Like is that like god or is that like Is it some weird? So when I was younger, uh around 16, I used to always browse 4chan Yeah, and when I would like browse 4chan, um one of the Uh boards that I would go on was the paranormal one So they had recommended this one book called the cabalion which kind of talks about the the The seven like rules of the universe, right? and one of the things I talked about the universe was that when you're dreaming you create a universe within your mind, right and The teaching of the cabalion was that what we are actually experiencing the universe that we are in It's not actually like a physical universe so much as it is this mental creation of a greater being So because of that we're all living in this like mental state Which means that if you will something into existence enough you are able to have it Since you aren't living in a physical place, but rather a mental place, right? So that's why it's something that i've always kind of applied to my own life as well with like my grinds And it's one of the reasons as well. I don't think anything is impossible, right? Because if you're willing to build it into existence enough and you're willing to work hard enough for it, right? Then how can you not create it when? everything is mental sure I i've had a very similar experience in conclusion Oh, yeah. Yeah But thank you for sharing that I I think it helps me Put some things into context Yeah um So let me just toss some stuff at you Okay, and and let me know um Where to begin Okay So i'm noticing that there's so so I'm noticing that you're you have to make a lot of kind of trade-offs earlier. We talked about sacrifice Maybe it's not really sacrifice But what i'm sort of noticing is that when you put a talent point in one part of the skill tree You're not putting it in a different part of the skill tree. Yeah, exactly. Right? So there's like I mean everything that i'm hearing about your life is very like opportunity costs So for example, we're gonna grind in our 20s, right? I'm gonna spend 12 hours a day streaming most days of the week so that I can have freedom in my 30s That's the price right and it's one of those things as well where another reason why I further feel like um, I guess uh That like that claim is a real thing is because when I was 16 I always told myself, you know, I might not look good now But if I work out every day, then I know that by the time i'm like 20 21 i'll look good You know, and when I was a smaller streamer I said, you know like even though my streams might have three viewers now If I grind every day and I give my all for this then there will come a day where it pays off, right? so it's just one of those things where You know You have those like momentary things where you are doing those things every day and then years down the line You look back and you're like, oh all those infinitely small progressions that you made Actually ended up in this big progression, right? Do you want your life to be different dantas? Um I mean, I think right now it's in a very good state like I don't really have any complaints at all with my career Uh, my family life I think is good um The only thing I guess I would say Would be I guess being able to like Trust again would be a good thing But then it's one of those things where you know if you trust someone and then you get shit on for it Well gg, you know because the problem is that it's it's one of those things where I have like a I feel like I have a greater responsibility for myself Not only because of myself, but also my audience, right? So like if I get involved with someone that isn't good for me mentally Then the issue is that not only do I have to suffer but then if my Behavior is worse on stream now and I have a lower energy Then all the people who would look to me to I guess like brighten their days Now they suffer as a result because of the actions of this one person So that's like another thing where it's like why would I give anyone that opportunity, right? Okay, so So Um any questions for me Uh, i'm just waiting to see what you have to say and then after that i'll probably what would you what would you like me? To talk about like is there something in particular that you're curious about my thoughts on? uh What's your view on me great give me a second i'll give you an answer Okay Okay, so i'm gonna try to Can I i'd like permission to take Two cracks at that answer So what i'm gonna do I think is i'm gonna kind of just dump a lot of stuff out Okay, and then in that process It'll get kind of organized And then I may pull out the ipad and then I may dump it at you again All right, perfect. Is that cool? Yeah You're welcome to interrupt at any point Um, if anything I say makes you uncomfortable or you're like, hey I actually don't want to talk about this. It may be very hard for you to interrupt me, but please interrupt me. Can I Do that? I mean, yeah, sure It's not fine if it's not fine. No, that's always fine That's a problem Okay, no, it's it's not always fine. That's what needs to change tldr Okay, okay So first thing is I noticed that like You touch your hair a lot Yeah What's up with that? uh, just because like I don't like when it looks bad. So I want it to look good So I always have to readjust it so it looks good because I just cba using like hair products Uh, you what? Uh, I cba cba means I can't be asked So I like I like can't be asked using hair products because it's too much like effort So instead I just like will do that. Why is it important that your hair? Look good I don't know just because I don't want to look like bad and what's the consequence of looking bad? I don't know. Maybe people think i'm ugly Okay So here's the challenge. Okay, what are you feeling right now as I point this out to you putting you under a microscope? I feel okay with it. I like being analyzed That I understand. I know I know you're okay with it. Close your eyes Yeah, what are the things you detect within you? The things I detect within me, yeah Okay, you know when you're like drawing like a thing and then you have the skeleton, uh-huh It's like right now. I view my skeleton but the little like particle in my stomach is flashing really brightly Okay, I don't know why is it a good feeling or bad feeling? It's okay. I mean now it's subsiding like now i'm good. Okay, good. So open your eyes. Let's get back into it So here's what i'm hearing somewhere along the way you realized that You will be judged Yep The other thing is that being judged first impressions are like really important, right? Mm-hmm, like very very important what you display is very very important because shit is temporary Yep, best friends for two weeks and then on to something else exactly so like You got to knock it out of the park like the first five minutes of the game that you play every interaction like at the beginning everything At the beginning everything is super important Yep And you've been on the receiving end Of people like treating you like crap because of what you look like or whatever, right? Well, it was never so much that I was treated like crap so much as it was I was never given the time of day Right so I think that's people didn't give you attention like they ignored you like you weren't worth spending time on Yep, right and and so like At some point you were like fuck that That ain't i'm not gonna be that anymore. I'm gonna be the king right Like ain't no one i'm never gonna have to lie about my weight again Like what's gonna happen is you had to lie about your weight to avoid Being made fun of and feeling embarrassed and it's not even clear that someone was even gonna make fun of you But what you're gonna do is you're gonna you're gonna something next time someone fucking asks you you're gonna tell them what your weight is It's gonna be the truth and they are gonna shut the fuck up They're gonna understand who's challenger league and who's bronze league Right It's gonna be completely authentic It's gonna be completely correct and ain't no one gonna complain about you And as you've succeeded as you've grown as you've grinded and sacrificed Did you really sacrifice who the fuck knows because maybe you didn't sacrifice. It's all it's all good, right? It's a it's a trade. It's opportunity cost all that kind of stuff As you've gotten better and better and better You started people are like, oh dantes. Oh my god. You're so great, bro. Talk to me Give me attention and you're like, uh I'm moving past Yeah you bitch When I was streaming and I had two viewers where the fuck were you And now that i'm big now you want to be my friend It's not and I don't get the sense that you have any malice Right, you don't actually it wish any ill on that person, but it's like yeah Right And even you could say that I could fall into that because it's not like I was talking to you like two years ago Or whenever right like here we are now like now that you're big like now we're gonna talk to dr Okay Yeah, right So this is this is this is interesting right because this is how life works It's about the performance you put on There's a very tiered system of like the people who deserve respect and the people who don't deserve respect and you're you're damned If you're ever going to be at the bottom So fuck that right? We're gonna like we're gonna grind to the top. We're gonna be we're gonna be someone once we we'll get into the whole control and fear of Uncertainty and crap like that. Hopefully in a second. I don't know how i'm gonna get there, but we'll get there So this is like the first thing Okay How does that sound to you? Yeah, it sounds I would say pretty accurate. Yeah, okay Is that a problem? I don't think so. Okay So I think it could be a problem and here's the reason why okay? so I I think that So you're trying to perform Right, like like it's very important that you project the right thing and authenticity is really important to you But I just want to kind of like point out a different perspective so I think part of the reason that people could lie to you is because I don't know if this is going to make sense. You may disagree with it, but i'm going to just invite you to be Just consider it Is that because like they do really care about you, right? So let's say someone has an authentic relationship and you equate lying to you as An if inauthenticity in the relationship Can I interject for a second? Yeah, please. Okay, so The problem is that I do agree with you So the the issue is right. Let's say I tell someone i've been lied to very many times, right? And they understand this and then they're gonna sit there and they care about me so much that they want to have what's best in Mind for me But they know that i'll view them differently if they tell me the truth about something so then they lie, right? in that case the person is prioritizing their That they're prioritizing me having a good view of them over the truth of the situation Which shows that it comes out of a place of self-interest So them caring about me is only because they're self-interested to begin with Because if they truly did care then they'd understand that me not wanting to interact with them anymore because of the truth Is something that is at my discretion So i'm i'm with you I think that's a very valid Set of rules, right? That's a set of rules. I think the key thing that that I think it's very Hope i'm I think it's important but i'm I'm going to make a pitch to you that it's important Is that based on the experiences that people have in life? They come up with their own set of rules and you were very clear that like these are this is the way that I interpret someone's behavior based on My strategic thinking The key thing that I think There are things that I think you're doing that may not be optimal and one is like so I get that honesty is important I'm not saying that you should tolerate lying or anything like that. But my point is that Everyone has a different set of rules, right? And those are the truths of their life Because those are the experiences that they grew up with And there may be people who for example, like I've worked with patients Whose parents have lied to them about having terminal cancer And the kid is like i've had patients who are like, I know something is wrong Tell me what's wrong and the kid is seven and the parents are like no nothing is wrong. No, nothing is wrong No, nothing is wrong And I don't think that those parents were lying Out of self-interest, I think they were lying out of love Is it a mistake in some ways? Is it does it cause problems? Absolutely. That's why they're my patients To begin with that's why they ended up as my patient. So i'm not saying it's the right thing to do. I'm saying that I think that some of the conclusion so the conclusions that you have are based on your experiences and your perspectives on life Yep Other people Can lie for all kinds of reasons. It doesn't necessarily mean What it means for you. Does that make sense? Yeah. Now, here's the reason that i'm even bringing it up in the first place You want a family one day, yep sounds like 30 years old presumably there's a partner involved Yeah Um, and when we think about that partner, I think that there's a very real chance that because It's like Strike one and you're out right? It's not three strikes and you're out. Yeah, not with dantes And so the problem is that like what you're doing is you're you're cutting out, you know, 100 of the population In terms of finding a partner because no one's perfect Well, I understand not being perfect, but it's just one of those things where You know Hold on. Well, let me finish. I'm with you. So here's the problem Is that when someone does you wrong? Okay I understand. I don't I know, you know that no one's perfect Yep, the problem is that I think what could be a good thing is that Yep, the problem is that I think what could be helpful and this why i'm stumbling to find it is that hearing the other person's perspective Could be a step That will help you a lot in the long long run Because what's going on is you're making a judgment and you're forming a conclusion and then you're asking on that i'm not hearing That there's space for the other person to explain or justify or even correct Well, it's one of those things where Okay So when I have a connection with someone right think of it like there's this line that's tethered between me and them, right? and That's a line of let's say pure intention, right? Where it's like there's this line. It's pure intention and it's mutually like bound. Okay Okay and the second that that person will do anything that line gets severed and I I wouldn't have any I guess like problems interacting with that person again, right or hearing them out or whatever it might be But that line could never be repaired if that makes sense Because it's just one of those things where maybe it's just because where i'm in my career or it might just be that but I view it as a thing where Eventually, right you'll find someone who won't do that and right now My priority should be on like my career my focus all that kind of stuff That giving someone a second chance Why would I even bother with it when I don't even kind of like prioritize that at the moment? Sure, sure. Sure. Sure. So if you decide that hey like i'm not interested in a relationship I'm not i'm not saying you should give people second chances because of that What i'm saying is that you're playing a game of league of legends where One death equals your whatever the base is gone right, because because you're like that like one like there's no respawning and so what's happening is you're you're playing a game where like the second a single person on your team dies you lose the game it's like This connection is severed Can you hear me out for something though? Yeah, of course. Okay, so Let's say we sit there and we say that like Okay, how many acquaintances versus friends would you say you have like acquaintances versus like real friends? Just a percentage? Probably point one percent of okay. Perfect. Perfect. That's all I need to know So you would say point one percent of your acquaintances are real friends, correct? Yes Okay, so or even less or even less. Okay You're just making it better. Yeah, so it's one of those things where then I would ask you I would say, okay If I were to apply that same kind of thinking to relationships now, right? Where people who would have genuine capacity to care and genuine capacity to like do all these things They're a part of such a miniscule percentage, right that even though 99 percent of them might not fill that criteria That 99 would just be those fake friends, right? And what i'd be looking for would be that point one point zero one percent where it is actually genuine Because I wouldn't want to waste my time Would that make sense to you? It makes sense Yeah So there's an important question That you need to ask me yep, which is how does someone become a friend? I guess you're like talking with you engaging with you. Um But so like someone become a friend right so so if you think about like the relationships so so I think a big part of that is that you're assuming that There's a there's an assumption baked in there. Whereas in my experience a big part Of becoming a true friend is frequently having disagreements and then repairing them Yes, but I think that I think that there's a difference between having a disagreement and something like lying about a serious thing, right? Yeah, you're right yeah, so it's like it's one of those things right where like um Imagine that a girl tells me like, you know I really like goat cheese and I hate goat cheese. I'm not going to look at that girl and be like well You're dead to me now. I never want to talk to you again Right, but it's one of those things where it's like I think lying is just I think lying is at the same level as cheating In the sense of like dishonesty and like let's get okay, so i'm i'm with you I'm not disagreeing with anything you're saying. So now the question is why is lying at the same level as cheating? Because in both of those things that person is putting themselves as a priority Over I guess the union as a whole Could you envision scenarios in which Lying benefits the union as opposed to the individual I would but then the See, I mean I could because imagine yeah, but So I guess then I would rephrase and what I would say is it has to do with like The person would be willing to put you before them Rather than the union so i'm curious dantes if we continue talking about this, where do you think we would end up? Any idea With a solution I don't think so. I think this is a this is a Dead end conversation. I'll explain to you why in a second. Okay, so we can absolutely have it So what I want next thing we're going to talk about is how cognitive you are Yeah, right. So you approach everything cognitively And so you're trying to figure out like I can debate logic with you all day long Yeah, but one of the things that I kind of want to point out to you I don't know if this is gonna make sense. I'm not trying to engage with you logically. I'm just making an observation I'm not trying to trap you but so like One thing that a lot of people don't know is that the logic of your mind is actually controlled by your emotions Okay, so what I've noticed I'm, not sure I could be wrong is that sometimes i'll ask you questions about kind of how you feel and i'll get very like Cognitive answers like you'll tell me a story that illustrates the feeling but sometimes you're really confused And so for example, like why is lying so important to you has nothing to do I mean not nothing that is the way that you're so when you have an emotion your cognition will Interpret it if that makes sense like our emotions are like radio signals that then get translated Into words, but the signal in the word is different. Does that make sense? Yeah, so I guess like my answer then would be like why is lying so important to me is because I think a lie Would put me in danger right or in potential danger and then I would just want to escape that situation Because even though I might not come to bodily harm, right? If my career down the line is like future harm by it Then that is like a harm to me. So as a result, I feel like a dangerous situation Yeah, absolutely and that makes perfect sense. So I think this is why lying is is like one and done for you I'm not talking about goat cheese. Okay, good example, right? So I I see what you're saying there Yeah, but I I think it's like let's be honest Why are you terrified and will have no second chances for people lying to you in relationships? It's because you got fucking catfished It's because people have lied to you over and over and over again and boy have you gotten burned burned burned burned burned Yeah, right. It's like hey, let's five five man all down mid. Let's go. This is the winning strategy No, you're not going to do that anymore. It's fucking dumb. We've done we played that game before it's going to lead to losing It's going to lead to all those kinds of shit. It's just bad Makes perfect sense Still it's problematic In my opinion, this is my i'm and i'm not the speaker of truth, by the way, of course Yeah, so so I I think here's what i'm sort of hearing is it's kind of like it's traumatic Does that make sense? Yeah, and I think a big part of of what you're struggling with so like i'll i'll talk i'll go into something else So you've figured out this strategy of life, which is like i'm gonna be a chad i'm gonna be the best right? And as you become more and closer and closer to the best like how do you feel about yourself? Like I could be better So what do you think about that? Like so why be best in the first place? I think that becoming the best isn't something that you can ever truly achieve so much as it is the mentality that you're in Has nothing to do with my question. Why become best in the first place? Because it gives you purpose What's the point of purpose Gives you a reason To look forward to something and what are you looking forward to? Something that only you can control which is things that you grind for Okay, so i'm not hearing happiness I'm not hearing contentment. I'm not hearing peace. I'm not hearing going to bed every night and feeling full of joy I'm not hearing Being able to be present I know you want those things But I think you're right With everything that you've said So it's giving you reason to wake up. It's giving you the capacity for control and what does control give you gives you security If you have security it gives you freedom and if you have security, no one's going to get to hurt you Yes, you are invincible And so your whole life is about the avoidance of hurt What do you think about that? I Tell me how i'm wrong I don't think you're wrong. I think that it's I think that for somebody that wants to become One of the greatest at what he does It's i'm entirely that you almost have to foster for at least a few years Um, so you can actually pursue everything fully Yes, you're 100 right and you're completely missing the point and sorry for being so condescending No, no Because why become the best right? So I I get that that's the mental so this is what's happening Like i'm talking to you about this over here. I'm like bro Their jungler keeps on ganking top And you're like fucking sit in the jungle and you're like, hey I'm like grinding creeps because I need my item. I'm like no no look over here. You're like no. No, no I'm with you. You're 100 right. Everything you're saying is 100 right That there is a strategy to become successful and number one in life You have figured it out. You are devoting yourself to it and you are fucking crushing it my bro right, thank you, yeah, and That's not the game that i'm talking about Because as you become more successful what happens to the emptiness within you when you stop playing Your numbers have gone up to 800 thousands What happens to the emptiness? stays stays Now you have this assumption That at some point you're going to circle around a family, right? Yeah Got to be careful there. I've worked with a lot of people that 20s become 30s become 40s. I don't think you're one of those people. I think you're going to circle around to it. I really do Okay, something about you is a little bit different At the same time Do you see kind of what i'm saying because when you're never going to be the best But you're chasing the best and why are you chasing the best because it gives you a reason to get up in the morning Why do you want to be the best because you don't want to fucking be the fat kid anymore You're like tired of people like treating you like not treating you like shit because they didn't treat treating you like you don't exist Yeah and it's also a thing as well though where it isn't necessarily only from a place of I guess like Uh disliking what I once was so much so as it is also that you know growing up with the I guess like having a lot of my role models be those like book characters The fact that now I can push myself every day to a point where it's like I look in the mirror and I look like the the mental image that I used to conjure in my mind when i'd read these stories, right like It's I guess a good feeling for me. Yeah, so so I think it's it there's definitely a lot of positive stuff, right? but I i'm still like No matter how swole you look and no matter how sexy you are in your tank top. You're still adjusting your hair Right. When is it enough? Yeah, no lots of things. So it's one of those things where even though I might look the way I do I don't think I look good, right? Like i'll sit here and i'll so that that's my fucking point, right? So you're living a strategy where you are succeeding everything that you want, but it's not actually helping you feel better about yourself Yes That's what do you think about that It is what it is I mean Do you want it to be different? Well, would it be possible it's one of those things where If i'd only have to deal with that emptiness right for like a few years and then i'd be able to Have I guess like the future life that I envision then It's worth it If that's one hell of an if Yeah, and here's my experience You don't have to wait until you're 30 to start feeling fulfilled today because the problem is that The strategies that you're engaging in aren't actually moving the needle Right, you've become swole, but you still look at yourself in the mirror and it's not enough Yeah like logically You've made progress you've made a ton of progress you were in the top one percent Of fat kids in the way that they look 10 years later top point one percent And does it do anything? I I think it does does something to your self-esteem right like you feel good like you you like like a piece of it You're like, yeah well Yeah, I mean it gives me less to criticize but I mean I could be leaner I could be bigger, right? Yeah, right. So so it gives you less to criticize and that's kind of what i'm saying is that like I'm not hearing fulfillment I'm hearing less things to criticize about But is there a difference between happiness and fulfillment? Are you happy? Well, no, but that's what i'm trying to get at right? Like let's say Like would it be possible that even having all these things that I can push for fulfillment and all that stuff without necessarily feeling happy? but I would still be Because I think that fulfillment is the sense that you can work towards something every day and say today I work towards that and even if you have criticisms those criticisms will leave you unhappy, but it won't necessarily leave you unfulfilled Are you fulfilled? I don't know. Maybe maybe if I hit rank one in Korea, we'll see Okay So like i'm not disagreeing with anything that you're saying but it doesn't fucking matter if there's a difference You're right. There is a difference between those two things. You're 100 right deeply spiritual dude. You're like, it's great You're you're doing awesome, by the way um We'll get to all that I'm not disputing but the question is is that the issue that you face? Um, I mean the issue is just like the emptiness Yeah Yeah, so it's like here you are and this is what I mean about the cognitive reliance You're like fucking talking to me about the philosophy of happiness and fulfill you absolutely got a point there, but that's I mean Like that's not what you're dealing with today Yeah Right, and and I get that you're planning for the future and you want to figure out how happiness and fulfillment works so that you can Once you figure it out, right? Once we answer all these questions and you're going to figure out your plan You're going to figure out your 10-year plan You're going to do this you're going to do this you're going to do this you're going to end up happy Right because if you once you and so I think those are all useful stuff You are by far one of the most interesting people i've talked to because You're like It's like you're so good at league of legends, but you're not playing with a mouse like you're using Just the keyboard. It's really bizarre. That's the best analogy that i've got there's just whole like Dimension of stuff that you're not even touching and yet you're doing so good Yeah, I don't know if that makes any sense I mean I can kind of say I guess you're saying that you're only living life kind of like half the way you should be But it's almost like you're doubling where you would normally be right? Yeah So what i'm saying is that even though you're making lots of progress and there's lots of good stuff happening You're not actually moving the needle very much at the things that you want to There is a dimension of things that you want to move which you're not touching at all and you have the assumption that if you get Swole you will like the way that you when you see yourself in the mirror, you're gonna like it And there is absolutely an objective level an intellectual level of satisfaction Yep, but there is something within you that is hungry which no matter how many reps you do at the gym How many fucking protein shakes you you make what's happening to that hunger? It's always there So will reps at the gym logic chad make the hunger go away No Two viewers 800 viewers thousands of viewers bronze silver gold diamond platinum, whatever the fuck challenger Are you good enough Can you take a couple years off yet? No, what has to happen before you can take a couple years off? You have to feel secure and yet all of your progress does not increase your security Yeah So let's understand How to increase your security with me so far want to tell me to go fuck myself? No, no, am I am I missing something here? Nope, did I misunderstand you? At all, okay, because I mean you can say that is this okay that i'm saying this stuff to you Yeah, no, I mean like i'm complete. So that's one of the things is that um, one of the things that actually made me As good of a league player as I am is i'm willing to put I guess like my ego aside and really like understand outside views To be able to further make myself better than I am Because if I get criticized right instead of initially having this like emotional reaction Instead i'll take the criticism and i'll say I can use that criticism to upgrade myself, right? Yeah, yeah, we're gonna have to get rid of that too Okay. All right. Could you just give me a second to go bathroom? Yeah, go for it. Okay one second Okay I think I think I got something for you. Okay dantes. Give me just one second. We're gonna start with a couple of examples Okay, so i'm gonna try to I gotta figure out i'm gonna screen share with you Okay So bear with me bro. Uh, okay, so that's there. There's beautiful dantes. Okay. All right. So dantes. Here's the thing Yep Okay, so what i'm you've made tons of progress, right? So there's hunger Hunger fuels ambition Ambition fuels effort Effort fuels progress. Yes progress gives you the idea of future security Yep. Now if we're going to be fair, there's some Real security already, right? There's also like some amount of like Pride Right Yeah, like you can feel good like you can feel like authentically. I don't think you've got low self-esteem. Does that make sense? Uh, no, I wouldn't say so either right but what it is is it's like in your mind Okay Here is your esteem Which is pretty much healthy, but I don't know if this is going to make much sense. There's some corner of it That no matter like how much this grows There's like some corner that kind of stays the same Does that represent your experience? Yeah, okay So like you can you can keep on making this shit bigger and this is what we sort of mean about progress But this stuff kind of stays the same So what we're talking about is like how do you make this go away? And by extension once you figure out how to make this go away, you will also figure out how to do this Um, so this is like a process Which is create like whatever the fuck fulfillment means This emptiness and stuff like that. This is going to be filled. Does this make sense? Yeah, but the key thing to understand is that this process And this process are separate Yeah, and we can agree on that You can logically argue with me later, but just is it understandable enough to where you can? My hypotheses Yeah, okay. So what we're going to talk about is how to fix this. Okay so rule number one Emotional Wounds Require Emotional healing Does this make sense to you It makes sense to me. Okay, so if we kind of think about So where did the hunger come from where did the insecurity about your appearance come from? um I guess it would just come from like the feelings that I would get when I wouldn't necessarily get noticed or not even just that but then also when I would start to make progress and I would see good reactions Then that would also add on to it as well. Beautiful. So that's weird, right? Okay, so it's weird because when you make progress, how do you feel about the way that you look? The same it's weird, right? So, okay, let's understand this. So you grew up here is I'm trying to figure out how to do this compassionately. Here's you as a fact. You don't have to be compassionate. It's fine. Yes, I do No, it's show. I don't mind That's the problem we're gonna get to that, okay Right, so so I understand that you don't feel hurt by it, but you were getting hurt by it Yeah, okay. So here's you as a fat kid. So fat kid learns what? appearances Equals worth right? Yes. Now. Here's the question when you become This is my attempt at muscles you've got these muscles right And everyone's like oh dantes, oh my god What does this do does this reinforce this idea? Yeah, absolutely. So do you see nothing is changing? Yep. This is why like you can get as swole as you want to you can get more muscles Right, you can get a bigger dick. Whatever doesn't matter But more and more muscles actually goes to reinforce this idea Yep So where does this come from this comes from judgment around your appearance? Now, here's the reason people get stuck in this because what do you think? What do you think heals this wound? Do you have any idea? I guess being shown that you do have worth apart from your appearance absolutely Right. So appearance Does not equal worth That your worth is intrinsic Of who you are and that if people are judging you for your appearance That does not mean you're a bad person. That means they are a bad person See the thing is I understand and I completely agree The thing is so that I don't think it's that your appearance gives you worth so much. So as it is That it will give you worth in like some people's eyes. Does that make sense? Yes, and So it's not that I would necessarily view myself as worthless because of the way that I feel like I look So much so as it is that well if less people would want to engage with you then that's like a consequence Right. That's wonderful logical stuff that is completely tangential to what i'm trying to say Okay, because remember what we're talking about. So remember What you just said comes from this part of you Yeah It doesn't come from this part of you Yeah, so what we're trying to heal is this part of you and this part of you obviously Yes, that's correct. You're 100 logically correct. Yeah, that's how the fucking world is Right people treat you differently depending on how you look Right and that's just how it is but you carry within you some level of hurt And that hurt is not getting solved by this So it's Even though people treat you differently like you're going to find more sponsors and you're going to do this and you're going to do that And people love you because you're a league of legends player who's actually swole So people can watch your stream and they can aspire to be good at league of legends and swole, right? There's a lot of good stuff there. I'm not disputing any of that What i'm saying is that this shit is you give stuff that you carry with you So now the question becomes okay, like how do you Feel Feel good again, and I think you know this too because it sounds like your parents have Routinely showed you and this is why I think yourself. This is why I think it's a corner instead of the majority Is because it sounds like your parents were actually very like loving and supportive And even when the world treated you like shit, they were sort of a pillar and believed in you Yeah, like my dad would always tell me that wasn't fat. I was just big boned Yeah, right. And did you believe him? No Okay, so he's lying to you Yeah, long take you feel good, okay, right? What do you think about that? I mean, I understand he had a good intention with it. So it's okay Okay, hold on a second, but I thought are we not severing the cord with dad because he lied to you No, I mean like because the cord got severed because of intention if his like if he only had pure intention And there's no like malice behind it. Then it's okay, right? But let's remember when someone lies to you. What do you assume about their intention? That it's malicious. Absolutely. And why do you assume it's malicious? Well, then again, it depends on the why well because then then the danger right like the danger of everything all that shit But my point is sorry for logically trapping you you can tell me to go fuck myself But my point is that so this is the reason I'm mentioning this to you. I'm not saying you're wrong by the way Okay, so I don't mean to logically trap you but I realize that's just what I did. It's unfair of me That's okay I don't think it's okay Okay Okay. Yeah Okay. So what i'm actually playing out between us is that I have a perspective which is different from yours And the only thing I would encourage you to do is if there is someone who you're in love with Because i'm terrified that one day you're going to get in love with some fall in love with someone who's going to make a mistake And because you're in love with them The thought of the hurt is going to be so much more when they lie to you Yes And because the hurt is so much more you are going to retreat and protect yourself And the more in love you are with someone the less likely you are to give them a second chance. What do you think? You're 100% right and that's what fucking scares me because I care about you my dude And if you find that perfect person and you never give them a second chance, the only person you're fucking is yourself Okay That's why i'm saying this to you. Does that make sense? Yeah, okay And I know it's gonna hurt like that's the hard thing about being in love and having a happy family is that like sometimes there's hurt involved Okay. Anyway, i'm getting off on a tangent Okay, so let's talk about fixing your appearance. I mean sort of fixing yourself worth so Now we there's this kind of thing. Okay, so then like but now the problem is The more you move down here The harder it is for society to go in this direction Yes, right because more and more people like you said with your fucking 99.999% example And this is something that I see a lot, especially In men that I work with And women that I work with for the men the more financially successful they become the harder it is to find an authentic relationship Does that make sense? Yep And The women that I work with for them it can also be the same but is more commonly different Which is the more physically attractive they are the harder it is to find an authentic relationship. Yep explain that to us Well, because what I would think is that a lot of the time someone would only date Uh a girl let's say that he would find attractive not necessarily but because he likes her But because he could show her off, you know and be like look this is the person who i'm with And then he feels like it would give him higher value And as a result, it wouldn't necessarily matter what that person looks like so much so as it gives him a better regarding within society Absolutely, right? And so when there is a relationship based on appearances So the more your appearance is high the more people will engage with you around your appearance, right? You attract the shallow people Yep And then the problem is the more people around you there are who are judging you based on your appearances the harder It is to be judged on something that is not your appearance Which is why authentic friendships are so rare for pretty and rich people It's kind of weird They can also be very rare for people who are less pretty and less rich But there's a whole other host of problems for those people as well But okay. So now the question is okay. Like what do we do about this right? Because this strategy ain't working So I gotta figure out what we're gonna do about this, okay, let me think about this Okay, so here's number three Okay, you ready for this, okay, so here's you swole These are your quads not your scrotum Looks like a grapevine Okay. Yeah. Okay. So here's your grapevine, right? That's how big your muscles are they're like grapes so Now i'm gonna tell you something. Okay now pay attention to your reaction. Okay. Okay dantes, I think you are an awesome human being Who has been hurt a fair amount and i'm really amazed and proud of what you've been able to make out of your life How do you feel when I say that In what way? Because I don't like It's just one of those things where like I don't like being complimented Okay, why? What what what happens when I compliment you? Because it's like you're complimenting what i've become And I want to stay stuck in the mentality at the base, which is i'm not anywhere near that Okay, so when I compliment you you say I am not near that So the first question We're going to learn a couple things You ready for something else? Boy are you great at league of legends? How do you feel about that Like I make a lot of mistakes and I mean I feel like Again, it's the same thing where I feel like I could be better. I feel like i'm not nearly as good as what I should be Okay Now let me ask you something which one makes you more uncomfortable the first thing that I said or the later thing that I said The first one Yeah, right. Okay, so i'm gonna give you another one. Wow, dude, you really look like you're in shape Okay, how does that make you feel That's not as bad It's not as bad. What's the difference when I compliment lull? or physical appearance Because when you say something like i'm in shape, right? It's almost like you're making a note on my body As a completely different entity from me. Yes, but then when you say that you think i'm a certain thing Then the problem is that then that's me and that's like all the hurt that I guess I carry Like beautiful You see one of those things I am valuing you as a person But if I value you if i'm like, oh dantes. Hey man, we should stream sometime You are big league of legends streamer like let's stream. It'll be good for my numbers. You're so good at league of legends You're so successful streamer Which side is it on left side or right side? Right. It's completely over here. Oh shit. This guy gets something From my good attributes Yep And I would say you're not even uncomfortable with that one iota This you can fucking swim in this shit all day long. Yep. You're gonna be feel fine, right? How do you feel about yourself when i'm like, oh dantes you're so like good at league of legends Like we should collab sometime man How would you feel? I mean it's just one of those things where i'd be able to instantly see through it and It doesn't make me uncomfortable. You're right Clout chasers and those fuckers that you look down on like then I become one of them You can handle that shit all day long Yeah, because they're chasing a shallow part of you. They're chasing your clout. They're not chasing this kid You see that yeah now here's the problem I think you're a great dude like I really do I think you're There are so many things I like about you And and has nothing to do I didn't I mean I didn't You know I I I don't even know you sort of but I think you're a great human being But the problem is the so the more we're over here the more your mind is okay with it But the more as we move this direction I could be better and as I move this direction You know like I'm gonna try something else which is like gonna sound weird Let's try this one dantes I really hope you're able to find happiness in life because I think you deserve it No, I don't like that Because the way that we sit is that I don't necessarily deserve happiness So much I don't care about how you see it. That's logic I'm sure you have a good reason to do that I don't care about how you see it. That's logic. I'm sure you have a good logical reason for it Sorry for shutting you down and interrupting you. How does it feel when I say that? That's not an idea that I accept You reject it Yeah And it's not a logical rejection there. Do you see this the rejection comes first Then I can I can dismantle your argument and what are you gonna do? You're gonna believe me then? Very Fuck no is the answer Yeah, and then you're gonna give me another reason and you're gonna give me another reason and you're gonna give me another reason And I can try to dismantle it as long as I want to I can be a master debater I can train with destiny for six months and I can come at you, bro And I can dismantle your arguments with all of the skills that I learned argue with people on 4chan And you're gonna say fuck. No Yeah, did I even compliment you at all? No So here's the person i'm talking to This is the fat kid And the fat kid rejects that because the fat kid This is not true for the fat kid and if that is like, I don't know how to say this it's not going to make much sense, but It's such a tragedy if that was the truth and the fat kid went through what they went through Does that make sense? There's no silver lining. It's just like all bad That if the world was a place where someone's value is actually not determined by their appearance then why on earth and all of that suffering is just like it's it's it's Flawed that's not the way the world is supposed to work. And I think that's where the emptiness stems from How so Well, because everything else is kind of just like a distraction, right? But then when you don't have that distraction anymore, then you're just confronted with your reality Yes, you don't Yeah Wait, and what is your reality? Know that You can be better that People will value based on how much better you become Right, you always have things that you have to work towards So your value in this world has nothing to do with in here. It has to do with your performance Yeah, and as you start to perform and perform and perform and you give people what they want and you become this thing You even have some resentment Because I think you actually feel a little bit good every time you turn someone down Because the fat kid wants vengeance Maybe Maybe yeah, I mean like it might be like a little good feeling but it's like it's not done to feel good I'm with you. So remember so now we got to this and this is another key thing Which I hope you're picking up this part of you feels good, but 90% of you is like whatever does that make sense? Yes There's like this There's like a kid inside you where these feelings are coming from which is why they're so confusing Because they're not your whole experience. It's just a piece of you But I mean if you tell me that's where the emptiness comes from. I didn't really understand that but like if you say so Yeah, that's the answer that I want you to say but even I can't quite connect those dots Would you want me to like explain it a bit more than sure i've got one one or two more things for you But yeah, i'd love to hear okay. So what exactly do you want me to like clarify then? Yeah, what is where is the source of your emptiness? so I think it's just because um so it was kind of like when I was uh Around 16 that I would also browse a lot of like red pill forms and stuff like that and I remember that at the time I used to feel very very very like I used to feel bad because I would say like oh damn I guess you can't really find like an actual true genuine connection Because you always have to like put up this pretense put up this like mask always work towards maximizing all these things and I think it's just like when you don't have that distraction like i've never really gotten rid of that view And then it's when you don't have that distraction anymore. Then all you really have left is that view that leaves you feeling empty Because it's like it's almost like you're chasing something Like my dad told me this quote one time right where he said nowadays people will buy things They don't need with money. They don't have to impress people that they don't even like right and it's almost like you're there and You're grinding every day to appear better in like 99 percent of I guess like the acquaintances are going to find the eyes, but at the end of the day You know like they don't really care about you and it's like vice versa. So why are you letting them dictate so much of your life? Why are you letting them dictate so much of your life? because There are there are actual like real world good consequences fit right? Like if I can sit there and I can become a better player if I can become a better shooter if I can become a better entertainer right, so so you're right and and so now we get to another thing which is The problem is right now the only fuel you can put in your tank is the fuel of insecurity and there are very real world Benefits of from the fuel of insecurity. Does that make sense? Yeah, and so I totally get that you're not ready to give it up because you don't know how what else to put your Put in your tank fair enough. Yeah Yeah Okay, one one last thing that I want to share with you, okay, so You do this thing that I would call toxic positivity This is a judgment that i'm making you're welcome to reject that judgment Okay So anytime bad stuff happens to you, what do you do you silver line it? You use it for growth And the tricky thing about this is that these are both these are good, right? Like every time you lose a game you can learn something from it And that will help you win the next game agreed Yeah So this is what's really bizarre, but that works on Like I don't even know how to do this. That's objectively true, but that does not heal the emotional hurt So every time you you do that you kind of like suppress or let go of your emotions Yeah, can I tell you like a quote that I actually had yes so like something that I wouldn't say is that It's fine because it has to be fine Because if it's not fine Then you allow it not being fine to impact you but if it's always fine, then you can always like push forward, right? Yes, and so here's the last thing i'm going to leave you with You are not in control of allowing things to impact you You fight so hard to let nothing impact you because you have to be impervious and therein lies why you're actually not in control Okay, letting yourself be hurt That's like the next level of control Okay Yeah, I just heard you're getting out And that's what's hard So this is why like all of the success chads end up learning about like yoga and meditation and stoicism and all this kind of crap Because like you have to there's like there's like three levels. Okay and i'm gonna go to I'm gonna switch back to this. Hold on Okay So there's like three levels there's like I suck at life i'm insecure Then what happens to use that insecurity to fuel ambition Ambition leads to objective success, but doesn't fix the insecurity Then some people get stuck So some people get stuck on phase one because they they have such low self-esteem That they're not able to like use that as fuel for progress. That's where some people get stuck The insecurity overwhelms them. Some people channel the insecurity become to become successful those people get stuck because They they have two choices in life. I can be insecure and unsuccessful or insecure and successful and If I give up the insecurity will I end up as secure and unsuccessful? That's what they think is gonna happen you're gonna slip back, but that's not you've never been there, right? That's actually what Enlightenment is Is like when you're actually completely chill and the funny thing about that is that the closer you get to that The easier it becomes to actually work really hard it becomes even easier And then you actually get to have your cake and eat it too. You can work for eight hours Then you can say to yourself, you know what? I actually don't need to stream for four more Sure, it would be better if I did but there are other things and you're not a slave to that thing And right now you are a slave to being in control You are a slave to being invincible And so that next transcendent thing it's going to be hard and I don't think you need to do it now It'll happen because two two two When the universe wants you to it'll happen and this conversation is a part of that karmic path So I'm catching you at 21 so you don't have to end up in a psychiatrist's office at the age of 40 at that point You need a psychiatrist Okay, okay because at that point it like turns into mental illness Yeah, and I've worked with people who are millionaires Hundreds of millions of dollars very successful prioritize things like you did and then like Worked 12 14 hours a day for 10 years of their life felt empty at the end of everything And then they still like you can't you just can't wait, because that's like a realization I come to where I All right. I said, you know that at the end of the day when you have everything that there is to have Right, like when you have everything that money can buy you realize that the only things that matter are those which it can't Yes, that's brilliant Yeah Did you read that somewhere you came up with that shit yourself? No, it was just like in the airport and I was I wanted to write it to it longer So then I just put that at the end of it because it just came to mind And how does it feel when I say that that's brilliant? It feels good Okay, to be fair though listen to me for them That's because my intelligence was always like, okay, you know, like it was never something that was super insecure about Yeah, okay because because you can't you can't fucking take a call you to be fair, right you got to discount it even now You can't just fucking take it Yeah Right. So so what I saw is something that was authentic and something that I appreciated. It's not a rank It's not it's like you made a good play, right? Like it doesn't mean that you're better or worse than anyone else. It just means in that moment. That's brilliant That's it. By the way exactly what happened to the buddha. I don't know if you know the story, but he's basically a king Was good looking had tons of money had tons of respect was married to someone who I presume was very respected and hot or whatever Had a healthy kid and he was like, wait a second. I'm still not happy. What the hell? I have everything So this is the problem is that as long as you don't have something your mind gives you the illusion to chase something and it says to you Hey, if you get this you'll be happy. Hey, if you get this you'll be happy Hey, if you get this you'll be happy, but once you hit the end of the road, there's nowhere to go except for women Yeah, exactly That's one of the reasons as well why I think that it's one of those things where people who are on like the higher income end of things are more I wouldn't say they're like more prone to like um Having all these like mental things that happen to them But when you take away like financial insecurity, then the only thing you have left is like yourself, right? So then it's just constant introspection like asking yourself questions and what do you really want and stuff like that? absolutely what sorry I was distracted for a second because I may have an appointment but um What uh, i'm sorry. I missed that last sentence. Can you say it again? I apologize I was saying that um people who are on like the higher income thing, right? Like celebrities and stuff even though they like people who have everything that you could ever want they're still prone to like um having all these like thoughts and stuff like that because When you take away the all like the financial insecurity, then all that's left is like you as a person, right? And then you kind of like have to understand like yourself um, okay So, uh, okay. Sorry, you're right Um, sorry, i'm trying to push my my next thing. So what questions do you have any? Um What do you think the next step would be? Like for me like let's say you were to look at me, right and you were to see me right now What do you think that the path i'm going down is a good one. What do you think? Like I want your judgment. Where do you think that I maybe should take a step back that I should ease up What do you think that these are things I should address? These are things that could like wait a while like what would you think? Okay, great question So my question to you is do you want the next step or you want the last step? Both So the last step is you need to stop taking steps Okay Just be where you are Stop chasing So here's what's going to happen when you stop chasing You will be present Because there's nowhere to go Yeah When you're not going somewhere you're present So it's going to be hard very practically what this means is Absolutely nothing bro 222 the world will let you know when it's time you will feel when it's time start listening to yourself Okay. Hey, this is actually what I want to be doing right now or hey Like this is actually starting to feel like I I really do want to change this You can learn how to meditate get in touch with your feelings We have this video about alexithymia, which I think you should check out I'll send you a link um, but I I think just more emotional awareness because I think what i'm seeing is you're just overly cognitive and there's this whole Other dimension of you that I think you're aware of but you don't quite engage in so you just need to bump up your eq So you need to like grind that for a little while and get in touch with getting touch with your feelings Yeah, okay A couple of other things that i'm worried about the only thing that i'm worried about is if you fall in love Don't cut that off because they made a mistake That's the one thing like give them a second chance And it doesn't mean that you have to give like and the reason I say give them a second chance is because I suspect that they may do something which because you actually mentalize Like what's going on in their head like you interpret it using your set of rules Like talk to them get you don't have to give them a second chance But at least give them the chance if you really love them like if you're in in love You know like if you're like if you're like man, this is the one this is the one that like 30 years When i'm 30 years old and i've made it and I have my kids and I want to take three years off This is the person I really want to spend my time with Do yourself the favor of having a conversation and do your best to listen to them Notice what kind of fucking feelings you're having go talk to a therapist work through your feelings and then make a decision Do not be controlled By your traumatic experiences of catfishing desire for protection this person hurt me I will never let them hurt hurt me again because that's why you cut them off Yeah, and you're not wrong with any of that. That's just how you survived right once we get bit by a snake Our brain is designed to be like get the fuck away from snakes Yeah, right. I'm gonna avoid this player because this player fucking feeds and I don't ever want to queue with them ever again Okay, you know who i'm talking about You know, there's some people who don't belong in challenger that you queue up with or you run into your games, right? But they don't belong there Yep Fuck them And the real thing that i'm worried the only thing that i'm really worried for you about is that you're going to meet the one And you're going to love the guys girls both none of the above our girls You're going to meet her and you're going to love her so much and it's going to be so fucking scary because when you're in love You are not in control When you're in love, you have to be willing to be hurt And those are the two things that you don't want to give up. You don't know where you're going to be in 30 years You don't know if it's going to be worth it. You don't know if she's going to cheat on you You don't know if she's going to break up with you You don't know if she's with you because you're so sexy and because you're so good at league of legends You don't know why she's with you and all those fucking thoughts which have gotten you here And kept you alive and made you successful Are now going to be working against you Okay And then if you let them take control of you You're going to end up regretting it and all this other kind of shit and you're going to start Having lots of meaningless sex and doing lots of drugs or whatever and then you're going to wind up in my office So that's what I would say I think you're I honestly dantes I think you're a good dude Thanks. I think what you've accomplished is amazing I don't think you should have done anything differently And I don't think that the life that you had was fair in some ways I think it's unfair and I don't think just because you turn it into a silver lining does not mean that like it didn't suck That you didn't deserve it And it means that there's there's an alternate reality Where there's a fat kid who is accepted by his peers and you're not nearly as successful. You're not nearly as ripped but You feel like you go to bed every night and you're happier One of these people who plays league of legends is happy when they're done these rare creatures Yeah, I understand that Does that answer your question I Think so Yeah, I think I think the main thing that you brought up with you have to be like I guess in control of allowing yourself to not be in control like it does make sense and even though there is like a risk reward and it's one of those things where it's like now since I am younger, right and I Guess I can prioritize like my career and stuff like that that may be a little bit down the line. I Can I should also be open to the idea of an alternate way of approaching things too? Absolutely. So, you know, it's at the top the final unlock Once you max out all of the other talent trees the final unlock is the power of surrender Okay Okay Yeah Interesting I don't know if you're you still need to put some points into the tree. Does that You get what I'm saying? Yeah. No, I see you're going out where Yeah, because I mean to be able to surrender and to be able to like really put yourself at the mercy of something else is the ultimate form of saying like That's the ultimate form of being in control because like that's where you do have no control So so the reason it's not the ultimate form of being in control. It's transcending the axis of control and not control It's saying that So be it and if this person wants to dislike me they can dislike me Yeah, if this person wants to judge me for this they can judge me Okay let them and If even if they say things that hurt me it will hurt me Even if they say things that hurt me it will hurt So be it. I do not need the avoidance of hurt to be able to control my life So this is why when we use this term moksha, which is Sanskrit for enlightenment It is translated as both bliss and freedom Because you are happy With pleasure or pain you are happy with acceptance or rejection because it is just the way of things It is what it is Okay Interesting Yeah, I mean it makes sense like yeah I can say that I'm very very happy for you And I'm rooting for you and I'm excited for what the next ten years of your life are gonna bring. Yeah Thank you. Yeah, I mean that's the thing. It's just like I mean the cool thing is that one of the things I like doing is like segmenting my life into arcs Because it's like easier to like come compartmentalize them. Mm-hmm. So yeah, I mean I think I Think that the future has good things coming. So I Think maybe we'll talk again like a few months from now and then sure Yeah, if you fall in love And you're in that spot. Okay may want to see a therapist, but you can always DM me I appreciate that. All right, man. Take care. You want to just like people where they can find you? Um, Yeah, sure. So I mean my twitch is just on test. So that's the A and T s or Everywhere else is just don't know so that's D. Oh a e and e l and for you you like your twitch or YouTube Oh, it's healthy gamer underscore GG. I think for Twitch and YouTube and then Twitter I think is like healthy gamer GG without an underscore I don't even I'm not quite sure but yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, and so you play League of Legends for like 12 hours a day You dumpster noobs As long as they don't dumpster my mental first, yeah, yeah, okay awesome Thank you so much for coming on and good luck and have a good weekend Thank you for having me. All right You