 I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Alrighty chat, welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream, my name is Alok Kanodja. Just a reminder that although I'm a psychiatrist, nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a question or concern, please go see a licensed professional. Yeah, so happy for those of y'all that are in the United States or in North America and if y'all celebrate Thanksgiving, a happy belated Thanksgiving to you. To the rest of y'all in the world, happy Friday. Yeah, I'm not sure what the intro music is. I think maybe it was made by someone in our community, I'm not 100% sure. So yeah. So and also Black Friday, right? I don't know, is Black Friday like worth stuff anymore? Is it still good? Like do you still get good deals or is it basically like a scam now? What do y'all think? It was your birthday. Happy birthday, Doomera. So today y'all we're going to be doing an interview with Slicker. I don't know exactly what we're going to talk about. Whatever Slicker wants to talk about is what we're talking about. And I understand there was some controversy or something a little while ago. I don't know the details of that. That's usually how we tend to approach these things. And we'll just talk about whatever we're going to talk about today. Yeah. And so I encourage y'all to, so I know it's challenging, but sometimes we talk to people who may be a little bit controversial. And so I encourage y'all to have the same open mind and compassion that we extend to all of our guests. That's part of what we do here, right? As we like try to talk to everyone and we try to hear their perspective on life and whatever and hopefully we can like learn something from it as the human race. And so that's what we do here. So I ask y'all to just extend the same courtesy to Slicker that you extend to everybody else who's here. We're not saying don't be judgment free, right? So I know that this also sounds a little bit strange, but I think it's fine to form judgments, but like have some compassion. So judgment is actually a natural part of the mind and like our mind is designed to form judgments and that's okay. And let's just try to understand everyone's perspective and who knows what we're going to talk about. Maybe if it's whatever was the controversy or not. But yeah, so without further ado, let's hop into our interview with Slicker. Yo dude, can you hear me? Oh yeah, let me, I just had another problem. Source settings, yeah. Yep. Okay. Let me see if that, can you say something? Okay it looks like people can't hear you. I think that's on my end though. Perfectly. I can hear you fine. Okay now we're good. It was on my end. Can you, are you able to turn on camera? Yeah. Hey, what's up dude? Yo, how's it going man? Good, how are you? Yeah man, it's good. I'm good, I'm good. Just wait one sec. I'm so sorry about this Dr. K. No problem dude. You remember me? Like from Stream Awards? Vaguely. It's been a couple years. Yes, it has, it's been a while. That was back in 2021 or something, right? Yeah, it was time for that. Yeah, we spoke briefly. Yeah, I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. I remember. Yeah, briefly I believe. Yep, I was drunk. I was drunk and... Many people... I love you man, I love you. Dr. K, I fucking love you man, I swear to God. Wait one sec, why is this... Huh? I'm so sorry. It's all good. Wait, let me do this. Okay, yeah, I'm sorry. So, yeah, I'm good, I'm good. How have you been Dr. K? It's been... It's been a couple years. It's been a while. Yes, it's been a while, it's been a while. I've always talked good about you man. I missed you. Honest to God, seeing you in person, one of the nicest people I've ever met. One of the genuine nicest people I've ever... I was shocked, because like, if you don't mind me saying this, because I don't know who it is. Was it you or someone else? Because I got DM when it all happened. And checking up on me and stuff, it was... I'm sorry, I'm a bit nervous. I'm a bit nervous. But yeah, you checked up on me and I appreciate that a lot, you know, at that time. And yeah man, yeah, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. It's all good man, I have no idea what we're talking about today. And it's kind of like open in that way, so anything in particular that you want to talk about or anything on your mind? Yeah, just basically a lot of things really, like just mainly basically about the past and what happened to me and you know, what's the best way on moving on in my way of what I'm doing? Is it correct or is it wrong or something like that? You know, so I don't know, did you hear about what happened with me? Sort of. I know this is kind of going to sound kind of weird, but I try my level best to not be aware of like what is going on with people. Because in my experience, you know, we've worked with over 500 streamers at HG and like one of the key things that we've learned is what you see on the internet does not equal what is actually happening. I mean it can at times and the internet can be a useful way for people to share stories and share information, but we try our level best to like not judge based on what we read on the internet. So I actually don't know the details of what you went through. I just know that you went through something and it seemed bad, bro. That's all I know. It's got me bad, but do you want to long story or short story? Whichever you prefer. I generally like long stories, but only whatever you feel comfortable talking about. No, no, I mean I don't mind. I'd like to say it because it would be nice because I've said it so many times and especially to the people that still watch me. I'll say it and I'll say it again. I don't mind. Basically around, do you know what Counter-Strike is? What? I'm not saying it would be Counter-Strike. Yeah, yeah, Counter-Strike. Yeah. So when that got released a year later, you could buy skins, you know, like in-game skins and stuff. So I bought the, I used to buy skins just to play the game because it was nice and it was sexy. And then they released a site called CSGO Lounge and it was like a betting site, eSports betting. So like pro teams, you just put your skin on it. So my skin could be like a hundred to two hundred. I'll place it on the game and I could win or lose. So basically it was betting and I got addicted to it. I'd continuously buy and buy and buy. Then they shut down the site. They shut down betting for Counter-Strike and I didn't realize you could do this with real money until I watched like a game of football and you see it on the banner and I tried it with real money. I won. I won like six thousand pounds. I was buzzing. I gave it to my dad. And then I had spare change, gamble my own money, would lose it all. And then I'd like get into a fake argument with my parents and be like, dad, just give me my money back. You give it me, gamble it, lose all the six K. Then what would I want to do? Chase the lose, chase the winnings. Is that correct? Chase the winnings. No, chase back what I lost basically. Win it back. Right. Yeah, sorry. And then I would do that and I'd fail obviously, get worse and worse. And then my goal was to get the six K back because my dad would be like, where's that six thousand? I was only like 18 or 19. So this is a long time ago. And how old are you now? 21. How old do I look? I don't know. 29 years old. 29? Okay. Yeah. And I so this was like I started all like 10 years ago, 18, 19. I started gambling and then I'd continuously gamble, lose, lose, lose and never stop. I couldn't stop. But I wasn't that bad. I wasn't that bad. It's because I would only use my money. Right. And probably I would like reach out to like when I used to work at my store or my I used to do sale. I was a sales advisor. I'd go to my managers, be like, hey, could you spare like a few twenty, thirty quid and take their money, gamble it. But because they were in real life, they'd be expecting their money back in person. Then I after that, I became a streamer, started streaming, started making a lot of money. And yeah, I kind of really got crazy with that. When did you become a streamer? When did you start streaming? Late 2018. Okay. So about five years ago. Five years ago. Yeah. And what kind of stream did you do? Oh, sorry. I don't know. You know, Raj Patel? Yeah. I used to go on his shows a lot. I used to like this is what he started. Wait, Raj Patel is in Austin? Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah, Austin, I used to go on his streams a lot and he's the one that really made me. And I used to play Counter-Strike and just do like some interviews or something. Not interviews, like streams with like other Austin shows, guys from the show. And then, sorry, I can't speak. I don't know. It's been a while since I've spoken to someone from like the Twitch community. So I don't know. It's a, I don't know. Anyway. You sound really clear to me. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. And yeah, I didn't really gamble then because I was making good amount of money. I thought, what's the point in gambling? You know, I'm making good money. I really did stop like late 2018 and then until August 2019 where I said, you know what? I've got this much in my bank account. Let me just throw in a little joke. Lost it. Went crazy. Lost all my, lost over 10,000 in probably like two days. And then I was like, I had the plan. So I would be like, let me just wait for my payment. But I was kind of not patient at that point. So I had a few friends I knew. So that was like MotivV, MissKiv, Trainwrecks and John Circa. Reached out to them and said, is it fine? You know, I was coming up with lies. Just pretended like, oh, because my, you know, my bank account got locked or something like that. You know, I'd come up with lies just to feed my addiction. And then yeah, that's where it really started going crazy. When was this? 2019. August 2019. And then I would start going crazy. I promised myself not to ask viewers and not to ask people I'm not really close with. After those guys, my friends, then I started saying, you know what? Okay, it's fine. I should ask these other streamers. And then I asked those streamers and then I started asking people that I was close to in my community. And then it went to everyone, basically. I went to all my subs, went to viewers. I went to people that I didn't really speak to. Yeah, and I went crazy with it. And I didn't really realize how much I was really down by because I, my brain ignored that. And also, I used to think what I was doing wasn't a bad thing. I don't know because in my head, like, have you seen any of the videos? I would walk around be like, you're okay. Can you keep it personal and stuff like that? Like I was sending personal videos just to prove to them that I was in hacked. Okay. Yeah, I would just send it to them just so it would be proof. What did you think? You said you didn't think it was bad. Do you remember like what was going on in your head? I would win. I was, I don't know. I was, it's just in my head. It was just like ignore that. You're going to win some money. Main thing is it's like, oh, I'm taking this money and I'm going to win. Positive, 100% positive. I'm going to win. And when I place it, I used to do sports betting. I didn't do slots. I wasn't addicted to slots. I would just do like sports betting, sit down and do tennis. And then I'll just sit down. It was my entertainment. Like Dr. K I'm telling you, it was wild. Like, I don't know. Are you, is this a number way before we do anything? Like, am I allowed to swear? Is this like a PG? Yeah. Okay. I just, nothing. That's a TOS violation, but I mean, Oh, no, no, no, no, no. So it was wild. Like I would even pull up like bets and then I would like go on porn and like watch both. Right. So it was, it was wild. Like I'd be watching it. Like damn, she lost. And then I'd stop get angry and then, you know, move on to find someone else and ask a message. And yeah, they went to legit anyone that was close by like my family, my mom, my dad. I would even lie to them and do the same story with them. My close friends. It got to the point. Even people come to my house and stuff. Is it okay if I ask you a couple questions about the slicker? Yeah, sure. So and when you did lose, so do you remember what would happen in your mind? That I would, I can't, I can't say because I feel like it started, I started moving on. I don't know. I don't know. I if I'd lost, it would be like, I don't know. I think it would be just like move on or something like find like you continue. Don't stop, you know, trying. You're going to win no matter what one day you're just going to win. But like realistically listening to it now, I didn't really do big, big, big bets. You know, it would be like the max I won from Benin was like 14,000. And I was like, and I was in mind, I was in debt of so I eventually, one of my viewers, I asked one guy and then he found out that I asked other people and he found it dodgy. And you know, he recorded it and I was like, it came out. It went out on live stream fails and everyone found out what I did. And I didn't know that I was in minus. I knew it was in the hundred mark hundred thousand mark, but I didn't know is that to that point of three hundred thousand dollars. Oh my God. That's a lot. Yeah. Well, it would be way more than that because but that's because some people probably didn't want their money back or something. But so three hundred thousand is what you owed other people what you had borrowed. Yeah. Yeah. And over a period of time. How long did it take to get to that number? From August 2019. No, no. Twenty twenty early January. February 2020. I'd say it was like that or late March. I was starting to do that. And I would like yeah, because I keep him. I went to Miami and I stayed with my ex-girlfriend in her house. And I'd tell her to pay for the food for me because on the side I was like gambling my own earnings. I'd be like, don't worry about it. You just buy the food. I'll pay you back. That's when it started going crazy. And I just continuously ask other people like on the side if if they could. But then eventually, you know, excuse me on Ludwig. They paid off the people that I will no matter what I call them my heroes, even if it's stingy or cringe. I don't care. But these guys are my heroes. These guys, which they didn't have. I know that they didn't have intentions of doing it for me, but they did it for the people that I owed. But they paid off the whole debt. Wow. So I was. Yeah. But there were a few people out there that didn't want their money from Ludwig, which I don't understand from excuse me in Ludwig. They wanted me to work to pay them off. So then, of course, when I got exposed, I was I thought like I still have a chance. Because I didn't I didn't believe that what I was doing was wrong. I genuinely didn't believe it. I was confident. I was confident that these guys are going to get their money back then. Then seen it now, obviously not. But then I was like, oh, these guys are going to get their money back. No problem. Let me just, you know, let me continue sending videos and, you know, oh, can I do this? Can you help me with this? But like I was I what I would realize a lot of times that I'm doing what I'm doing is wrong. I a lot of times you think of like just sit down, gamble. You're going to win this when I lose. I'd go cry. Okay, I'm not going to say I say I said I'm a mom's life a lot of times, but I would cry a lot of times. Like I punch my pillow, punch the wall, smacked my punch, my leg. And even I'd go live and come up with excuses like to ditch not stream. I put no effort into the content I would create. I would like watch my like the tennis while I'm streaming and pretend I'm paying attention to stream. And then once they're losing or something, I'll stop pinching my leg, punching my leg, you know, so no one could tell. I was in like Team Liquid. You know, Team Liquid. I was in Team Liquid. I'd even ask them for money. Like I went to anyone. I legit went to anyone. Parents when you said that you were like upset, you would punch the pillow or whatever. Like what were you upset about? Like, okay, I was pissed because I was pissed because I lost. What were you pissed at? I lost my bet. And then, oh, and then I'd have to go to another one and I'd have to ask someone else. But then when I'd ask someone else, those emotions are gone. And then I'd start thinking of, you know, at the same time, I'd want to say that weirdly, weirdly, weirdly, it was a it pleased me. I know that's I know it's weird. It pleased me. I enjoyed it. Like you enjoyed what gambling. Okay. Well, yeah, I mean, I think people do. No, no, like I mean, like it I would sit down and watch it and like, I don't know. It would wild me up. I'm like, nice. Okay, you know, and then I'd go out of my mind when they would lose a game. I would I would go into the people's Instagram account, like the tennis player go into the Instagram account and just scroll through the comments and read the nasty things at them. And I'm like good. Like it was that bad. I would go to the comments and be like, you know, that's good. She deserves that. She rigged the game, the bitch or the male male or female, you know, I'd be like, you know, fuck you for throwing that game. Then obviously eventually I'd be like, damn, that's sad. And then at times I'd even I would cry and realize that, you know, I need to fix myself. I wish I could prevent this. I wish I could be debt-free. I wish I could stop. I'd cry about 30 minutes later. I'll go back and do it again. So when you said you wish you could be debt-free, you could fix this. What were you trying to what did you wish you could fix? Not be in debt anymore. Pay everyone off that I owed. That was my that was it was it was my goal. But then again, I can say that, you know, Ben was something that I enjoyed doing as well. So yeah, I mean, so I think that makes a lot of sense. And by the way, slicker, thank you so much for sharing this. Are you okay talking about I mean, I know you've been talking about it, but I just want to check in with you again. No, I mean, I honestly got doing it with you. I feel more comfortable doing it. Yeah, I mean, I think can I just share like a couple of initial like thoughts? Yeah. Yeah. So the first thing is just listening to you. You know, I've done a fair amount of addiction work, but usually like substances and technology like not I haven't worked with a whole lot of people who have struggled with gambling relatively speaking, of course. So not like hundreds of people, let's say. But I think the main thing that I'm kind of hearing from you is how not negative all of it is. So I know it sounds weird like we're talking about that. It's like a bad thing. But as I listen to your experience, I'm sort of hearing you say, OK, I wish I could take this away. And what I'm sort of hearing you kind of say is like you wish not that you it's not clear to me that you understood you had a gambling problem at that point. But that what you really wanted to take away was the debt. And when you ask people for money, like you didn't even view it as bad because like you were going to win. Right. Right. I thought I was going to give it to them. But absolutely. Right. So like that's kind of bullshit. Yeah. I mean, but now but you know, that's what happens in our mind. Our mind gets away from us. Right. Anytime we're addicted and maybe a little bit later, we can talk a little bit more about that because I think there's a lot of things that you're describing, which are really consistent with what I've heard other people say and what I've read about and stuff like that. Maybe towards the end, we can kind of map some of that stuff out for people who are watching and kind of like almost like warning signs where if your mind is doing this, then maybe you should be a little bit more careful or maybe think about getting some help. But, you know, I'm still just struck by how not negative your experience of some of this stuff is. And by not negative, I mean like, OK, you're like, OK, what I want is to not be in debt. I want to borrow this money, but like I'm going to win and I'm going to pay it back. I don't get the sense that you thought you were taking advantage of people or you were trying to steal or anything like that. It was just it was just a sure thing that you were going to win. I was at the point where it was like it was bad though. Like, yeah, of course. No, like I'll be like, I'm going to pay these people back. But it came to the point where I would even genuinely like my thought of scam wasn't then. I didn't think of it as a scam. I thought I'm borrowing money. I'm not doing anything bad. But eventually it came to like even people like the Lekari and a few other people. I would I found ways of pretending to send that money back. So does that mean so on PayPal you could do something called goods and services. I would pay someone with goods and services before you keep going. I just want to make sure that you're not going to I don't want to. So we always want to we don't want people to get hurt by coming on and talking to us. So there's nothing you're going to talk about here that would be confessing to a crime or anything like that. Right. No, no, no, no. I I this was 2000. This is last year September 17th, 2022. It all came out at the start. I was I was scared. I was really scared. You know, I wanted to do like I wanted to disappear but I couldn't it was just suicidal thoughts. But then, you know, of course with Ludwig and XQC helping me out paying off everyone, you know, it helped me a lot. I said, you know, it's time to be actual man because I'm 28 years old doing this sort of immature shit. And, you know, as a grown-up, I said, you're not meant to do that. But, you know, I went out, found a job, worked as a security officer at the airport. And, you know, life was good because I actually started because the Internet and reality is two different things. You know, you know, you know, like when you when you talk to the Internet people, people when you look at these people, you only see them as business associates. You would think they're your friends, but they're business associates. And then, you know, you get to together together, but then you start separating yourself when you see like, you know, the viewer or the audience not with you and all something like that. That and then when you go outside and you work in a real job, it's a lot different. I told everyone what I did just so they don't trust me in case I do something stupid. I told them all I told my manager. I told them I told the people I worked with, well, the friends I had at work and they were like, we don't judge you. You know, you look at you looking at you. You're coming here. You're doing work. And, you know, it looks like you want to improve yourself. And I was like, damn, that makes me feel good. And then improved, improve my confidence working there. But it also made me I don't know. This is also this is also something I want to know from you. Eventually, like I could never watch any of the reactions. I couldn't I couldn't watch any of the reactions like, you know, Asim and Gold's reaction was like saying, I hope the I don't care if these guys kill themselves. And then you got other people like the all of these guys. I was doing the reviews and stuff like that was too hard. I'll scroll down. Read the hate was too hard. You're talking about reactions about you reactions, right? Yeah. And seeing seeing what I did as well is something I couldn't even do. I couldn't even watch it was too hard. And when I came out forward and cried and explained it to the Internet, And then eventually now my current stage is that I see my past self as a joke. I don't know from your side if that's a correct way of moving on because I did go to therapy. I went to therapy at the start, but my job kind of like stop me because like I was doing 12 hour shifts and I couldn't meet up with my therapist and she does only weekends and at certain times. And then I stopped and then I came back into I couldn't come back to streaming. Some of the victims that I scammed. They were like stop being a pussy, you know, they would message me and stuff and they were like stop being a pussy go live and stuff on this. I know it might not be unbelievable from them to say that to me, but it is true. I don't want to name them. So when they said stop being a pussy go live, were they asked they were still supporting you as a streamer? They were saying I was confused. They were my they were my friends. They were there for me, but they were also like scammed. They hated me. They didn't want to talk to me. But eventually they started messaging me and I was messaging them. I played games with them and stuff like that. And then they were like saying should press the live button stop being a pussy go live and stuff like that. I genuinely didn't want to do that. I didn't want to do it at start and then eventually went live and I started getting confident again and started streaming during the times I was working. Then I got sacked from work. That's something I that's something I don't want to say why I got sacked for and then it wasn't good. And then well, okay now I'm not making myself any better because I said it's not good. No, let me give you a little insight. No, you don't have to say we're totally fine. Not knowing like let's just go. It wasn't illegal. Why did it wasn't bad? It was not the same thing. I was doing it was just human faults. You know, folks, we all have them. So you were saying people were messaging you. Yeah, and then sorry. Yeah, and then I started streaming and yeah, I just went to the people just use it against me be like look at this. Look at the law. This is you begging and this and then I just got used to it to the point where I just laugh at my past not to the point where I scam but to the past of me as a gambler. I laugh at myself as so when it comes to a victim. So as a gambler, I would laugh and be like this is not this is someone different. I'd look at this is not the same me. I see myself as and in order for me to positive like for me to move on I'd see the parts where I'll be like, you know, yo King. Can you keep it? I'd laugh at myself and be like this is this guy's a clown. But particular points where I'll be like if it's any victim, I wouldn't I would not laugh at that because but like for my past of my my addictions. I would laugh at that. I don't know what if that's a positive way of moving on because for me people will try and use that against me and I'm like, okay. All right, if you want to use that that's not going to affect me. You know, I know I can better myself and I know I can be a better human. Yeah. So can you tell me you said like like something about being an actual man? What do you mean by that? Oh, okay. Well, yeah, I don't know about being a man still but I mean, you know being responsible. What does that mean? So I was you know, like do my own stuff, you know, like laundry. I was basically I'm still I live at my parents house at 29. So I mean, you know, I would 50% of other people who are 29 by the way, I don't I don't care though. I don't care if I live with my parents but like she would make me the food. She would clean my clothes. She would do my bed and all that stuff, you know, and then I thought I started realizing, you know, it's about time to for me to start doing that myself and like they'll do my bed and you know, good for you man. Well, not not the food but you know, just put the food in the plate for myself and stuff like that. You guys are somewhere. Yeah. And you know something like that and actually be responsible do something and work and you know, what is a man? I don't know what define me what a man is. Dr. K. You know, like being a mature. I can't I can't that's something I can't be can't be that why can't you be mature? Boring. Okay. You know, I can't I can't I could not hang around with someone that's really mature. I mean, I'm not saying you you are definitely mature. But I mean, I'm saying like someone I don't crack up with, you know, small jokes or something like that. So what does mature mean to you? My father wait, no, that means actually I can't hang out with my father. No, no, I take that back. No. What about your father makes him mature? He's a man. He's a man. He he he does things like the light bulb switches off. He's like, okay, he goes up. He does it himself, you know, and I'm there watching him. He's he's running the bills. He, you know plans, you know, sort everything out of the house, you know, with something I have no clue of. And yeah, that's someone a man. A man. Someone who's responsible, someone who takes care of you. Someone who's responsible. There we go. Yeah, dependable. Someone who's right, right, right. Someone like that. I'm not at that current stage still. I would say that, you know, I'm very immature. Someone who doesn't need to be bailed out. Correct. Exactly. Someone who works to pay these people off, which I did. I did. You know, I know not to be I'm not going to say, oh, I'm taking all credit on stuff. I did work because there were a few people that wanted their money back. Someone took me to court and I worked off paid that person back. A few of my people from outside of my friendships I owed. I worked paid them back. There were a few people that still I still owe and I will work to pay them back as well. And yeah, that's but yeah, definitely. How does it feel to pay people back? It feels good. I mean, I'm not I can't say I'm the people that I owed right now. It does feel good, you know, but I don't want to I'm not going to take you know, I'm not going to be like I paid them back. You know, I'm always going to be like these guys excuse me a little bit because I'll do all the reasons for me to afford to pay some of these people I owe back. Sure. You know, but it does it does it just feel it feels good. Like I can't lie the life I had when I was streaming. It was beautiful. I could go on holidays. I got free stuff and stuff. But the life I have now is a lot better than I did it when I was streaming back in the day. How so? I it was depressing like I was I was faking my act. I was using people. I wasn't investing my money. I I used to go live and put effort into my streams. And yeah, I was just just genuinely just a scumbag. You used to go live and put effort or not put effort? No, no effort. Like my viewers would love they wanted me to collaborate with other streamers. They wanted me to do IRL streams and stuff, but I never did any of those just so I could just like sit down and watch like Ben on my right screen or something. Okay. So so you feel in some ways that your life now is better. What's different now? That I'm in a safer place that everyone that everyone got their money back. I'm not as I'm not as depressed. I'm not I'm grateful. I'm grateful. You know, that's a huge thing as well because like I wasn't grateful when I was streaming. I'm definitely grateful to be in a position like this because you already know like for what I did I could have been in a lot worse place than if not for those for execution load. I could have been in jail. I could have been I don't know could have been a six feet under the grave. I don't know. I couldn't tell. But yeah, definitely be grateful as well. What are you grateful for? I'm grateful for a lot of things. So like for being debt-free for having a few friends there for me still family. Given a chance. I feel like I'm missing something and I can't think of it. You know when you're. I mean, I think that's but I think it's also so I everything you said makes a lot of sense to me and I think sometimes it's interesting you say you're missing something. I think in a sense you probably are but I think that sometimes we don't have the words to express what we're grateful for because you can feel gratitude without really even knowing exactly what you're grateful for. And one of the things that I'm kind of getting from you is sort of like there was this alternate path to your life and some of the gratitude I'm feeling off of you is that you're not on that path anymore. And that path comes with all kinds of problems and honestly some nice things too because you're going on holiday and you're getting free stuff and you know you're streaming with big people and you're a big person. And so there's a lot of stuff that's alluring about that life. But I think what a lot of people don't understand looking from the outside is that there's a lot of toxicity in that life too. There's a lot of fame and fun and and you go is that's annoying because like I mean to be honest look Dr. Kate where I work there were you go people over there as well like managers would like look at that look down at you and it's the same it's honest to God is the same thing. But yeah I mean it was also like you know when I went there people would be like whispering to other people that guy did this this guy did this this guy did this. And like even at time even at a particular point where I was like and break I come back and you'd always have to go to your manager because the manager will point you to go to like do your bags do x-ray or do something like that. I went to my manager. I was in shock so I the girl that told him about that I you know raged at her. I was I don't get it how is this meant to be funny you know but then the girl didn't really know what I did they just opened the video they didn't have a clue what happened and she didn't know who I was because people were telling her and it felt like it was a it was a bit uncomfortable. I didn't like I didn't like working with the people around me because they don't say it to you because I would be okay if they came up to you and be like okay this guy did this. I'll be like okay yes and it is me you know I'm not going to say it's not I'm not going to be proud of what I did but you know they wouldn't do that they would just go behind and I'll be like who said that who said that who said that who said that. You know so I'd avoid speaking to them. And so Slicker you're saying you had some questions about moving on so what can you tell me a little bit about that. I mean today. I. It's. Because I'm right now I've had like. After the whole thing I have my family supporting me and my ex girlfriend throughout the whole thing they they support me through all of it my sister prevented me from using my card like she would you know take ownership so what I did was I took ownership of my card. Yeah I don't know the word for it in English but basically they would they would look at what I'm spending on stuff and they would spend it for me they'd sell all the bills they'd sell all the bills they'd sell all the bills. And wait what was the question. You said you're you're curious about or you're trying to move on. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. I'm curious about that. You're curious about or you're trying to move on. And I was just, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And what makes that hard. So I feel like I don't know if I'm 100 percent positive. If I'm confident, if I've moved on, you know, because I did that the same way back in the days in 2017. I mean, the scam thing won't ever happen. But gambling, I don't know if that will ever happen. And to be honest, when I say the scum thing won't ever happen, who knows if I ever go back to gambling. I could be still that same degenerate. But I, for example, like in 2016, I stopped gambling and I froze it. I tried to help. And then a month after, I was like, you know what? I'm OK. Took my card back. Didn't gamble. Month later, I saw a little bet, said, let me do a little cheeky tenner. Lost it. And then lost and lost and lost. I went back into it and never stopped. So, you know, like I'm wondering what, you know, am I forever going to stay as an addict because I'm not confident. Today, I had a dream. And this is not a lie. I swear to God, I had a dream that I had one dollar in my account. Opened it. I said, you know what? I don't do slots. Let me put it in a slot machine. This is a dream. I won 37K from a slot, just from one spin from one dollar. And I was I was happy. It felt so real. I swear to God, it felt so real because all the things I could just think of what I'm going to do with it. And then I said, you know what? I said, you know what? Since it was thirty seven thousand eight hundred and sixty seven, I said, let me let me slot with the seven dollars. I won sixty seven thousand or up a hundred. Gave it to my dad. Woke up and I felt sad. So I don't know. Is it inside of me still? Do you think I can ever come to the point where I can actually like be confident with myself and not do it anymore? You know, like I don't know. I really don't know. I don't trust myself either. I don't trust myself either. Slicker. So here's the thing. This is such a beautiful question. It's a question that people have been asking for hundreds, if not thousands of years. And we're going to talk about answers to the question. But I don't I don't know that there is one. I think it's we'll talk about it. It's a I'm excited because I think when I was training to become a psychiatrist, these are the kinds of questions that that you know, we would talk about not only with our patients, but with my teachers. So what does it mean when someone is an addict? Does it mean that they're this way forever? And what I'd love to do is just share with you kind of my understanding. I don't know specifically about you, but you know, just what I understand about that question and how I approach it, how I think about it, what we know about neuroscience, what we know about psychology. And I think the dream stuff in particular is is is fascinating. So I'm just going to make a note of that. But I mean, I've never had this before. Never had this is today. It was so random. Today was random. I don't know. It's not random. It's not. Of course, it's not random. You said you've never had this dream before. Right. Over a year of being sober. Yeah. And of course, it's not random. Right. So what else is happening today? Excuse me. What else is happening today? You said this is the first time you've had this dream, right? OK. You had it last night. Right. So what was on your mind when you went to bed last night? What was on your mind the day before yesterday? What was on your mind when you woke up this morning? Dream. I also want. Yeah. Right. So we're having this conversation. Right. So you're mentally preparing. That we're going to talk about this. Right. Right. So I don't think it's a coincidence that, you know, it sounded like you started betting at the age of 18 or 19. And for 10 years, you've never had this dream. No, no, no, no, no. Today's what? Some magical coincidence? Wow. Out of 3650 days. This is the day you have the dream? Yep. Yep. Yep. So there's good news, Slicker, which is that your mind operates based on science, based on some logic. And it's my belief that the better you understand the way that your mind works and the rules of the mind, you will find an answer to this question of moving on and what you can do and what you cannot do. Right. Before we dive into that, can you just tell me a little bit about what growing up was like for you? I had strict parents, like, and it was in a good way. I personally, I believe it was not bad what they did. But like, you know, we, there was strict. We didn't, I couldn't use the internet at certain times. I was heavily, well, so I would go to school. I have ADHD. Okay. And it was so hard to focus in school. I failed all subjects, except for maths. I got C. That's the highest. I, when I first went to school, like in the end of primary school, I'd mess about and all that stuff and they'd call in my dad many times. I'd get in trouble, get grounded. And then eventually I went to high school and I, again, the same thing. I would just do stupid things. And yeah, I was in, what's it called? The highest learning support. I was in learning support, the highest one. Okay. You know what learning support is? It sounds like you needed some kind of support to help you learn. So it basically does levels. So if you're in the highest level, you get the best, the hardest questions in maths and English. I was in the worst one. I'm confused. Does that mean that you needed more help or you were getting super challenging questions? No, I was needed more. I needed help. Okay. Yeah. But you said you did stupid stuff in high school. Like what? So there was these guys that used to kind of bully me. Yeah, kind of. But I would try and be on their side. So there was this time there was under the stairs and there was a fire alarm. They were like, yo, yo, go show us how sick you are. I was like, what? And it was like, yeah, yeah, punch that fire alarm. I was like, yeah, yeah, come then. You know, I was smiling and all that. So I punched the fire alarm and it went off. And then the headteachers came. I ran upstairs and then I tried to do a reverse psychology. And went to the head office and snitched on myself. And I said, I cried. But it was a fake cry. No, no, I was actually crying, I think. Was I? I don't know. So I am. No, no, I wasn't crying then. I wasn't. But later on, I was crying. I was I went up to them. I said some guys actually, you know, forced me to do this and I didn't want to do it. And they're like, are you sure? Then they show me the camera and they saw me smiling in it. And then, yeah. So my parents came and I got suspended for like two weeks from school. And then I had weird stuff. I don't know. Even when I went to work experience, year 10, my uncle said you can work at hours. And I'd go up to the frying pan and I'd spit. Now, hold on. Don't worry. No one ate this. But I'd spit in the what's the thing that you put the burgers on? The grill? I was testing you. Congratulations. Yeah, the grill. And it would sizzle. The spit would sizzle. I was like, oh, that's cool. So I bought him my uncle. I said, look at this spot. And he looked at me and smacked me. I didn't realize. I don't know why, but I didn't realize it. And then he sprayed it clean. I was like, do you not know? And I was like, oh, of course. You put the burgers there. So yeah, a lot of times I've done a lot of stupid things. I don't know. I don't know why. Weird. Okay. Yeah. That's very helpful. Oh, no, sorry. Yeah. And then, you know, like internet was strict. I couldn't go on the internet. When I'm home, my dad would be like, read a book for one hour. And then. Did you like it? Oh, hell no. Hell no. No offense. I'm kind of getting into it again into reading right now because I'm inspired by Tupac. You know, Tupac, Dr. K. He actually made me feel like a man. I'm serious. He's the one that made me feel like because, you know, you know, what he did was he was a true warrior. You know, his background and what he did to his own kind of stuff and his messages in his songs and stuff. So I felt like, you know, it made me feel better. It made me feel like I wish I could be like him. So what about his songs made you feel better? It was like, you know, how you read books and you picture it. Me listening to his lyrics was picturing it as well. It was like reading a book, but I could visualize it. And it was so it was so good. And it was like I'm educating myself with what he's saying and what it was like in the back in the days and who to trust, who not to trust. I mean, who can I say that to trust or not? But I mean, from his perspective and stuff, it was good. So then, you know, it made me feel like in some aspects, it made me feel like a man, you know, and it also made me feel like, you know, what your weaknesses only makes you stronger, you know, and he was the same. You know, he also wanted to kill himself after he got shot, which I'm not comparing myself to him, but he he he wanted to kill himself. All he did was become stronger and stronger and he, you know, started going all out. Yeah. But yeah, sorry. Let's get back to the thing. Books are just so they are kind of boring. I mean, like I said, I am kind of like reading some books inspired from what he would read, like The Prince and what was the other one? Not just The Prince. I'm starting to read The Prince. But I don't really like reading books because my ADHD was so hard. It's so hard. I'd read one hour of a book and in my head, I'm thinking of Counter-Strike. Like it was creative. I have I have a creative brain. I could like control my brain as if I'm playing Counter-Strike. So well, it wasn't Counter-Strike. It was a game called AVA. But yeah, I was like, oh, sorry, I'm talking to you. You're not talking to you. You're doing great, dude. You know, when I'm so let me let me ask you, do you have so I understand your your main question is OK, like what does this mean for my future? How do I move on? Am I always going to be like this? You have these kinds of questions, right? Another one, like if I like I'm not I'm not ready to get a woman, but like I don't think a woman would be OK hearing about my past. You know, like what a great question. Yeah. Give me a slicker. This is awesome, dude. Like I'm being serious. Oh, I think it'd be sarcastic. No. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. But yeah, yeah. Like stuff like that. Like I'm not confident. I'm not confident speaking with a woman. It's like there was this woman I was actually interested in. She was like beautiful. And then she was like, you do know I know you about your past. I was like, yep, I don't know. This is awkward. I can't just move on. OK, you know, so I don't know. Other other thoughts, concerns, questions, other thoughts, concerns, questions, other thoughts or concerns or questions that you want to share. Oh, oh, oh, oh, no. OK. Can I think for a second? Slicker? Absolutely. I mean, actually, I'm going to need like a minute or two. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let me ask you one other question. Do you have a sense of you said there have been periods of your life where like this hasn't been a problem for you, right? Like the gambling. Right. What do you mean by that? Like like there are times where you weren't gambling during the times when I started gambling. Yeah. So like you've been gambling off and on for like 10 years or more than 10 years. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. But there are periods of time when you're not gambling. Right. Right. What's your understanding of what's different about those times? English was so good. I'm so sorry. Could you elaborate? Sorry. Like what was that? Just that last sentence. So what was going on when you weren't gambling? What was different about your life so that you weren't gambling? I can't remember the time when I was working at three. I can't remember that. But when I was when I started streaming, I said there's no point for gambling. You know, like I'm making enough money. There's just no point. There's no I'm making enough money. Do you remember how you felt about streaming? Was it mostly about the money or was it like, huh? No, like as in I'm making more money that there's no need to gamble. You know, like compared to when I was working at three, I'd still make good money like one thousand five hundred a month. But I'd want more like I'd want to hit 10k. But when I was streaming, I was making a lot of money. So but then let me I'm a bit confused. Right. So once you start streaming and you start making money, why would you start again? Why would you start gambling at all? Because it was just a little cheeky, little cheeky for fun. You know, when people gamble for a little fun, you know, so I just did it for a little fun. The cheeky tenor, as you said. Yeah, I can't to me. So it was probably not even a cheeky tenor was probably cheeky 500 pound or something like that. OK, you know, so I was like, yeah, just do it. Then I was like, yeah, just for fun. And that did not turn out to be fun because that was just when it all happened again. OK, but it was good because like even when I was like, I was able to like afford to go, you know, pay for my own flights and stuff. I'm sorry. Are you still collecting thoughts? You're good. Yeah, it felt good because like I was it was my own money. I could spend it on this and I was smart for like for once I was actually smart and saving my money, which I never did. Never did. I saved up like 15 K, 50 to 20 K in my bank. That's the highest I've ever seen in my streaming career from my own money. And then. Yeah, sorry. And when this stuff was going on, did your parents, did your parents or family think? Yeah, no, they had no idea. They had no idea. OK. Oh, no, no, they did. At one point when I won the six thousand, but that was when I was young. I said, Dad, I want this. I want this from it. Here you go. And he was angry. He was like, you don't ever do that again because he's his morals is he's like hugely against gambling. Anything that's haram basically. Well, for me, what's your ethnicity, slicker Iraqi? OK, I don't know what that is in ethnicity, though. White. It's fine. So OK, so it's haram, right? Yeah. Alcohol and work. Right. I mean, I don't have I have a mixed family. So like once my dad's not that religious, though. So what do you do? I believe in it. I believe in the religion, but I just I'm not practicing Muslim. What do you mean by believe in the religion? I believe there's Allah. I believe there's sins. I believe praying. I believe he's testing us. I believe, you know, that is the right and correct path. But I'm not doing it. That makes sense. What's your understanding of why you're not doing it? Laziness. And if you were less lazy, what would doing it look like? Obviously, be. With God. OK, so how does one do with God? By following what it says in the current. OK, OK, so observing what the Koran says. Right, right. You know, like praying, being, you know, a good person. Not doing any sins, not drinking, not doing any of those around stuff, not masturbating, which is hard for me as well. Dr. K is hard for a lot of people. No, I mean, genuinely, it's hard for me. Like, I think I don't know if it's an addiction, but I remember a lot of names. You know, I go into detail like I know a lot of porn star names. I see. And yeah. And I do when I was young, I would do five times a day and I'm twenty nine. I'm doing twice. Well, not twice. I do. Actually, I'm dying out, to be honest. I'll do it like three, four times a week. You masturbate five times a day. Oh, yes. Hell, yeah. It was weird. Like, I don't know if you want me to go into detail with that, Dr. K. But it was wild stuff. I would. Yeah, I think it would be better if we don't. Yeah. Let's let's table that for now. But I do think that's actually like a significant detail. Oh, I thought you said significant improvement. Well, I mean, that may be too. But if you don't mind me asking, Dr. K, how old are you? Forty one. Well, that's great. No, you do look like you're in your early 30s. That's crazy. Good genetics. I'm lucky. Yeah, that is crazy. I wish I looked like you when I'm 40 then, because that's only 10 years soon. That's crazy. And when did you get married? If you don't mind me asking, I got married at I want to say 28, maybe. I'm 29. Do you understand? Like, you know, 29 and you was 28. You married, definitely were mature then. And like, I'm 29. I'm still bitchless. No, I'm so sorry. I apologize for saying that word. Womanless. And what's your understanding of why that is? Not confident anymore, really. I'm just not confident. OK. You know, you know. Wait, wait, wait, what was the correct answer? There's not. There's a correct answer. I missed out. No, no, no. I mean, I think that's a big part of it. But I think when your default when the words that naturally come out of your mouth is bitchless. Right. So that that means that there's a there's a certain conditioning, which I think could be getting in the way to. I was really I was really I was so respect. I had an ex with a date for two years and we broke up because like, you know, she would tell me to stop gambling. She knew I was a gambler. But she didn't know it was that crazy. I should be like, stop. Oh, we started. You know, I was respectful. I'm a respectful man. I believe you. So but I think confidence is a good place to start. But we can talk a little bit about, you know, comparison and stuff like that, too. But let me just are you cool if I use an iPad and draw on it? Yeah, do whatever you want. You know, yeah. Why? Why? Well, we're going to like we're going to go to class. It's like, OK, I'm going to try my hardest to focus. I'm so sorry. Like, I think it I think it'll my my thought is that it'll make it easy for you to focus and not harder. OK. But if that changes, you let me know. OK. So I have another question as well. Yes, please. Now, with addiction, those are OK. I'll come to that later with addiction. Right. Sports betting and Cassie and slots, different addictions. Correct or not? Yes and no. So that's why we're going to we're going to explain all this stuff. OK, so let's understand. These are all honestly a slicker. I'm not I don't I don't think I've you know, if I tell you that I think something is a good question, I'm not I'm not like trolling you. Like, I genuinely think it is a good question. Like, I'm not OK. I think your questions are all awesome. I think there's by the way, have you ever been taught how to pray? Yeah, of course. Yeah. OK. OK. Yeah. My mom taught me how to pray when I was young and she would always tell me like, just come back, you know, stop praying and, you know, believe and stuff. I know I'll I know eventually I'll, you know, admit to praying and, you know, seeing. Yeah, that's totally. So I'm sorry. Yeah, that's totally. So I'm going to go ahead and we're going to do this. Hope. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Give me a second. OK. Yeah. I my. Hold on. Oh, shit. I guess I can't do that here. Give me one second. Make your time, sir. OK, let's move this over here. I just want to say, you know, thank you for doing this with me, Dr. K. Yeah, of course. Thank you for coming on, Slicker. All right. Can you all see this? I know you can't right now, Slicker, but we're going to fix that in a second. So I'm going to screen share with you and I just want to check in with chat that they can see what I'm. I've got here. Can you all see OK? Chat. This is the only time I'm I don't usually pay attention to chat. No offense, chat. OK, great. All right. So Slicker, you're asking, can we move on? All right. So a couple of things. Bluetooth. Connect. There we go. OK, OK. So you're asking, can we move on? First thing I'd say, Slicker, is that I do think, you know, this is absolutely a question. You said you were seeing a therapist for a little while, and this is something that I strongly encourage you and everyone else. We're going to learn some basic principles today and sort of like almost what I would teach if I was teaching medical students or psychiatry residents. And they asked me, hey, can a patient recover from an addiction? This is sort of the answer I would give. Does that make sense, Slicker? The patient recover from an addiction? Yes. OK. Is that the question that you were asking when you said, can I move on? Yes. Yeah. OK. So let's understand, like, why an addiction happens. Like, whether and then we'll we'll be able to figure out whether you can kind of quote unquote move on or not. So the first thing to understand is that if we sort of like look at your history, right, you're someone who is impulsive. And how can I say this? Vulnerable to having fun. Yes. So like, do you kind of get what I mean? It's like, OK, you're down in the stairwell and someone is like, hey, Slicker, you want to hit this fire alarm? And you're like, yeah, bitch, let's go. You're sitting there at your uncle's like restaurant, you know, getting ready to make burgers or whatever. You're like, wow, let me spit on this. Like, let's see what happens. It's like, that's pretty cool. It's sizzling. So do you see how like things that other people would not consider fun or even things that other people would consider like foolish or stupid? You actually kind of like enjoy doing. And it's almost I don't mean this in a bad way. It's almost like childlike with the level of joy that you get. If you really think about it, like, you know, watching if you take a four year old kid and they spit on something hot and the child enjoys watching water sizzle, I don't think that that's a bad thing. You get what I'm saying? Like, there's just a simple joy of like, OK, this is cool. This is physics. It's like water is evaporating. Like something gets lit on fire. Like, oh, let's have a good time. Let's like this is what I kind of mean. There's like a vulnerability to having fun. Right. OK, that's crazy. I'm compared to a four year old. No, no, no, I don't. I didn't mean it as an insult. I don't worry about it. I believe I'm like I like a 10 year old. So to me, so so there's a part of that. That's true. I actually think that there's a lot of almost something to be aspiring to. I'm not trying to troll you here, but I think actually a big problem in the world is that we cannot enjoy things the way that you could enjoy them. Like, I actually think watching something something sizzle like watching water sizzle is not like a bad thing. Like, it's pretty cool. And the world would be a very different place if we could just appreciate like normal ordinary things like watching water sizzle and like what happens if I, you know, light something on. I mean, I don't think we should go around like things on fire, but like fire is cool. Right. Like, it's cool to watch things burn. Like we all love fireworks. Point is that there's I think that if we look at the way that your brain kind of works and you're just also consistent with having ADHD, you don't really think through the consequences before you act. I don't think before doing stuff. True. Right. And so if you kind of think about it, what is it that if you don't think about what's going to happen when you do stuff, what is it that drives you to do something? I don't know. I don't know. Just just me. Instantly I know instinct. I just instantly do it. Okay. I don't know anything I see, you know, like, I don't know. That's crazy. Okay, so so what you call instinct, I'm going to call impulsivity. Okay, it's kind of the same thing. But I think the other thing is that what drives you is like, this is going to be good. Do you kind of get that? Like anytime you do something, pardon me for saying so, but anytime you do something stupid, you think that something good is going to come out of it. Like, I'm going to spit on this thing. Let's see what happens. I'm going to hit this fire on. Let's see what happens. Like, this is going to be lit. It's going to be great. Right. Right. Let me put a cheeky tenor on this. Like, let's just win some like, let's go, baby. Like, come on, let's go. Yeah. You know, that kind of feeling that I'm talking about of like, let's go. Let's have a good time. Right. Okay. Now, as a grown adult, though, at 29, to do stuff like that is, yeah, that's bad. It can be. But I also think that there are many 40 year olds who I think would be happier in life if they did, if they lived a little bit closer to the way that you have lived in the past. Right. Simple joys. Okay. Right. Right. So this is what we're talking about. It's a bad thing. But I would also say that this is simple joys. Right. Okay. Yeah. You kind of get what I'm saying there. I don't think it's necessarily bad. I mean, the way that, yeah. The way that you engage with it has been harmful in the past. Yeah. But that I'll agree with. I don't think you should start putting cheeky tenors on things. Fine. But let's understand that what you have is, my goal with this is to explain this to you and then for you to decide what is good and what is bad. Okay. Okay. All right. So this is just kind of your makeup. Now, there's a couple of other things to understand. So when we gamble or other things, so you mentioned like masturbation. Gambling. Okay. Okay. And then there's also other things here like alcohol, video games. Right. Right. So like all of these things in the brain are going to release dopamine in this part of our... Video games release dopamine? Huh? Video games release dopamine? 100%. Great question. So dopamine is a neurotransmitter. So that means that it's a chemical signal throughout our body and brain. Ah. So in the brain, we have different parts of our brain that dopamine does different things. So we have this part of our brain called the nucleus accumbens. Okay. So we have this part of our brain called the nucleus accumbens. Okay. So that's the part of our brain that's going to release dopamine. Okay. So that dopamine does different things. So we have this part of our brain called the nucleus accumbens. And the nucleus accumbens is where we experience pleasure, where we have behavioral reinforcement. So I'll explain what this means, okay? Sorry, my handwriting is terrible. So when I do something and I have fun, I want to do it again, right? So if I like get a gift and then what happens, what is, when I have fun in real life, what is happening in my brain, that experience of fun is governed by dopamine and the nucleus accumbens. And then the reason that the brain works like this is because it wants to reinforce behaviors that are pleasurable. So this is why like if we look at like, let's say a thousand years ago, two thousand years ago when human beings didn't have the food that we have today, carbohydrates, sugar, and fats led to a survival increase. So if I just ate like vegetables all the time, I wouldn't survive. I would need to eat calorie dense food because calorie dense food helps human beings survive. Okay. Like in nature, we're talking about, right? Right, right, right. So then what happens is our brain is like, okay, this food helps me survive. Leaves don't help me survive, but fried potatoes help me survive. So I'm going to release more dopamine in the nucleus accumbens when I have chips or French fries and because that'll help me survive. And then we're going to want chips or French fries again. So pleasure and reinforcing a behavior go hand in hand. Okay. So now we can look at these kinds of things. So masturbation, we feel good, right? When you tug one out. Yep. Alcohol, we feel good. Video games, we feel good. Like when you pop a headshot in CSGO, it's like, let's go. Right. Right. It's like, hey, I'm going to bet $500 on this. And when we win, it feels good. You with me? It's kind of the same feeling as when you're 1v5 in CSGO and you think you're about to lose, but then you kind of reverse sweep them and you headshot people, you're out of ammo, you've got your knife left and there's still two of them left. And then you end up winning the match and you win with a knife without ammo. It's like, that's pretty fucking epic. Like, it's great. Right. So what dopamine also does other things. It also does movement. So it's not just pleasure. So for example, when I move my hand like this, like if you just move your hand across your face, that's governed by dopamine. And when we have a dopamine deficiency, we get like this thing where we can't move our hand smoothly and stuff like that. Anyway, that's it does more than that. OK, right. So the key thing here is that if we look at kind of the way your brain is probably wired, this is what we know about people who get into problems with addiction, is that you're going to have problems with like multiple things. So sometimes you'll have a quote unquote drug of choice. But the basic issue here is that you are vulnerable to having fun, which is like a vulnerability to dopamine release in your brain. OK, OK. Now we have to look at a couple of other things. So this is kind of the way you're wired. This is also consistent with ADHD. So people with ADHD are more vulnerable to addictions. OK, not your fault. You didn't do anything wrong. It's just the way that your brain is wired. So now let's understand a couple of things. So if we look at people who get addicted to stuff, they have a couple of neuroscience deficits. And that doesn't mean you're stupid or anything. These things can be built. But naturally, the way that your brain grows, it's wired in a certain way. And we need to work harder to wire other things. So the first thing is a lack of internal awareness. So this is consistent. You following what that means? I'll explain. So this is consistent with just about every patient I've worked with who has struggled with addictions. So internally, we have all kinds of emotions. We have an ego. And when these things are bad, so when you're feeling like a lack of confidence, when you're feeling sad or pathetic, all right, I'm going to actually use like masculine language here. When you're feeling pathetic, when you're feeling dispensable, because here's the thing to understand. Men experience emotions differently. Yeah. And a lot of the emotional language that we use in psychology and psychiatry, like we'll use these words like sadness and shame and whatever. But in my experience, that's not the experience that men have. I don't feel sad. What I feel is pathetic. Those are kind of the same things, but we just have different language for it. So we'll feel sad. We'll feel dispensable. We'll feel like a fucking pussy. Right. So what is what it like if I ask a dude like, how are you feeling today? They'll say, like, I don't know. And I'm like, are you a fucking pussy, bro? And he's like, yeah, man. But what is that? That's what we call shame. You see what I mean? Like shame or guilt is going to make. But that's not our experience of it. Yes. We don't like wake up and we're like, oh, man, I'm ashamed of myself today. You wake up and you say like, man, I'm a fucking loser. Like, why am I such a fucking loser? Right. That's what our subjective experience is. You get what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. So now your brain has an issue. So it is vulnerable to having fun. It is vulnerable to dopamine, but it's not just a vulnerability. It's also an advantage because now your dopamine signal is so strong that any of this stuff that you are feeling will disappear if you can trigger this. So if we look at kind of like what's going on in people who are addicted, can you move on? Well, that depends. If this shit gets out of check, your brain knows that there is a 100 percent way to fix any of these problems. You know, all these fucking these fucking losers out here who fucking whining about their emotions and like, oh, man, like, I'm so sad and like, oh, my God, I'm so pathetic. And your brain is like, fuck that. We can make all that shit go away. Let's just place a little bet. Let's be on top of the world. You have a one way ticket, an all access pass to being on top of the world any fucking time you want. All you got to do bet some money. Right. Because when your brain knows I have one dollar left in my bank account, if I place that bet, what are you going to get? And I've never played slots before, so it ain't a problem. I haven't had a problem with slots and it's just one dollar left in my bank account. What am I going to do? How am I going to fix my life with one dollar? You can't do shit with one dollar. Can't even buy gum. So what does your brain brain tell you? What are you going to do with that dollar, slicker? I mean, now. In the dream. Oh, obviously, you know, that's it. Bet it right. Because when you bet that dollar, what's going to happen, slicker? Become a millionaire, not a millionaire. Thirty seven thousand. Right. So your brain is like it's not crazy. It's smart. It knows that you can't become a millionaire off of a dollar. But you can win the jackpot. And then even then, your brain is like, hey, look, we're smart. We've made all this fucking mistakes. We've gambled away three hundred thousand dollars. We're not going to gamble. We won thirty seven thousand dollars, eight hundred and fifty seven or whatever. Right. That's what you said something like that. Are you in your brain, in your dream? Do you gamble away the thirty seven thousand? No, no. You gamble away the seven dollars. We can afford to lose that. We can afford it. It's OK, bro. Don't worry about it. You got this, bro. You feel me, bro? We could do seven. It's just seven quid, bro. You got thirty seven thousand in the bank. Come on, man. You deserve it. It's a little bit of fun. Let's go. Right. OK, so your brain is like it's interesting. We'll get to that in a second. But the key thing to understand is that there's a lack of internal awareness. And when there's a lack of internal awareness, negative emotions can pile up. OK, so here's your negative emotions. And the thing is, your brain has a really interesting way where it can get rid of all these negative emotions. It can get rid of them through these things over here. OK, you kind of following me like the masturbation, the gambling, playing games, whatever. It just shuts off our negative emotions. And even we ask you, what was your experience when you lose? You'd smack a pillow a couple of times, you'd rage, you'd cry. And then your mind is rage at people. I'd actually rage at people. I'd rage at my viewers. I'd rage at my. You'd rage at these people who are fucking throwing tennis matches because they've taken this thing away from you. Oh, my God. You were supposed to win. Don't you remember? You were supposed to win. That's how it was supposed to be. And these fuckers, they took it away. Fuck them. They were rigged, Dr. K. I'm telling you, they were all rigged. But they were rigged last time. They're not going to be rigged next time. This time it's going to work because how many times can tennis matches be rigged? Yeah. Yeah. OK, so now we get to the third thing. So this is something you've got to understand. Can you move on? Well, that depends. I think the more that you are aware of this kind of stuff, the better off you will be. OK, because if you can manage your internal emotional state. So this kind of gets to I know my handwriting is terrible. If you can't read something, let me know and I'll explain it. But here's the thing to understand. If we look at the times when you weren't gambling, I don't think it's just that you had money in your bank account because you've had money in your bank account and you've gambled and you've had no money in your bank account. You've gambled as well. I don't think it's the money in the bank account. I think it's when you were making money, your life was better in a lot of ways and you were feeling emotionally better. Your ego was also better. Right. Because now you're making it right. You're an important person. It's not just the money. It's that look at me like I'm on Austin shows like I'm on Raj Patel's whatever like show and like all these other people like we're collabing with people like XQC and Ludwig and like I'm a I'm a I'm a big boy. Right. I'm a man now. Like this is this is what it is. Like I'm a streamer. I've made it. I had some chump. Like look at how awesome I am. So when you feel good about yourself, there's no need to gamble. But I don't think it's just the money in the bank account. I think it's the internal stuff, which many people so men are at a disadvantage to begin with because we are not taught about our internal emotional state. And then furthermore, a lot of women aren't either. But this is sort of the way that men are raised. But as long as you're not aware of your internal emotional state, you're going to be vulnerable to this stuff because there's going to be things happening inside you that will be controlling your mind. And then we get to something that's very important. We need to understand signs of an addict's mind. So and you've got kind of a classic addict's mind. Give me a second. So I'm not the first. What about others? So am I the first person you spoke to that's got like a gambling addiction? No. So what have they done the same thing that I would do? Like ask other people. Fucking. Yeah, dude. Every single one. So OK, I'm sorry. Just one thing. Who's I know it's my fault and I take responsibility. But when they ask, if someone, for example, ask, do I do I jump and blame the addiction or do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah. So that's a great question. So do you blame the addiction? I would say that the addiction is not your fault, but it is your responsibility. Who? No, that makes sense. Right. So if you ask, I mean, I and I think that like I don't know that blame actually like matters. So I think the problem is that a lot of people with addictions will absolve themselves of the responsibility because there's an addiction. So they'll say like, you know, like, oh, and so I think you're still responsible. It was you. Right. And you could have made a thousand other choices in a thousand moments in your life that could have altered the course of of where you are today. And at the same time, we also need to acknowledge that you were dealt a pretty shitty hand. So some people aren't like the reason I'm not addicted to gambling is because my brain is probably a little bit different from yours. I don't get to take credit for that. Right. It's not because I'm like a better person and you made some comparisons between me and you. I got married at the age of 28. That doesn't mean that I'm a better person than you or more competent. We'll get to this more at the end. But I disagree. And we can talk about that more. Right. It just means that my hand in life is different. So you said you believe in Allah. Right. So like Allah made you the way that he made you and he made me the way that he made me. Right. And I don't get to take credit for that. No, but that only depends if you don't believe in that door. I believe something close enough to where I mean, I think even scientifically, we can all acknowledge that each of us has a brain that we don't get to control. Each of us has an upbringing that we don't get to control. Yeah. So like we always really start exercising control in our life by the time we're like maybe like 17, 18, 15 if we're super lucky. But does that kind of make sense? So I think that like people who are. Yeah. So I mean, I've just learned that a lot of the stuff that people are impressed about when it comes to me, I actually can't take credit for. Like I know it sounds kind of weird. Like so I get to take credit for my actions. But whatever my IQ is, whatever, however loving my parents were, you know, my parents were also like financially very stable. So like they gave me opportunities that I don't get to take credit for. I was like failing out of college. But like when they sent me to India, they bought my ticket. Right. So whenever they supported me like they I had so much financial support, it's like you can't it's apples and oranges. Anyway, we'll get to that in a second. Let's talk about the addicts mind for a second. So not my viewers. So early on when you were hitting people up for money, what your mind said was not for my viewers. Right. Huh. So you talked about a period of time when you started borrowing money. Right. Yeah. And when you so your mind is we need money. Yeah. Let's borrow it. Right. And then your mind said, but not from my viewers for some time, eventually changed. You get what I'm saying? Yeah. So here's how you know whether you have an addict's mind or not is that your mind will give you some kind of justification. But at the end of the day, you're still borrowing money. Does that make sense? The key, the hallmark of the addict's mind is it gives you a justification. But no matter what the justification is, you're still going to gamble. So at the beginning, you said, I'm going to use my own money. I'm not going to borrow anything else. But what is your mind telling you to do? It's giving you permission. It's saying, go gamble, slicker. It's OK. As long as we don't cross this line. So we're over here. Let's say here's the gambling threshold. OK. And then this is the line that we're not going to cross. This is other people. And then what happens is you borrow money from them. And then this changes to not my viewers. I don't know if this kind of makes sense. But your mind will always let you gamble. But it'll give some kind of artificial rules. But at the end of the day, it's saying, OK, like we've got ten thousand dollars in the bank. We've got fifty. You had fifty K. And so what does your mind tell you? Your mind tells you, OK, we can we can bet a little bit, right? Even in the dream, even when you get to control things. We can afford to spend seven. So no matter what happens, OK, seven dollars. Gamble. Not my viewers. Gamble. And when it becomes your viewers, let's make personal videos. Gamble. So do you see that no matter what your mind, whatever whatever happens in your mind, your mind comes to you? Your mind comes up with some kinds of thoughts, but the behavior is always the same. All roads lead to this. And I see this a lot. Maybe I'll use an example because I don't think I'm explaining this the best. But I see this a lot with people who smoke pot. OK. And when people use marijuana, they say, hey, it's not addictive, right? That means I can use every day. Or is it like I don't get high every day? That means it's OK. They'll whatever their mind will will move into whatever position it needs to to make it OK to use today. Today, it's OK. In the future, I won't worry about it in the future. This this this is the line. But like today, like it'll give you whatever information to allow your brain to engage in whatever the addiction is. This is the hallmark of the addict's mind. When your mind starts twisting and turning and the answer is always the same, today is OK, but tomorrow will be will be different. Yeah, I see. True. Right. So if your mind starts doing that, the answer is always good. You can provide whatever justification this thing will change. This column will change every single day. But the end result will always be the same. Oh, as long as my parents don't know, it's OK. As long as I limit it, it's OK. As long as this happens, as long as blah, blah, blah, blah. As long as this person doesn't know, as long as I don't do this, I'm going to. And the thing is, the what is acceptable and what is unacceptable keeps moving. Right. That's what happens. As you said one day, as long as I don't take it from my viewers, it's OK. And then, oh, it's OK. But as long as something like that happens, like that, this is the hallmark of the addict's mind is that if your mind is telling you if there's a part of you that knows that this is a bad idea, but then your mind says it's OK if we use this kind of logic, it makes it OK today, that's the addict's mind. Does that make sense? Yeah. OK. So the end goal is just gamble no matter what. Exactly. Right. So and let me just go ahead and move this over here. And then we're going to I'm going to stop screen sharing with you. And we're going to go back to this. So you kind of asked, you know, can you ever move on? So what I would say, you know, if I was teaching a class, so I don't know specifically about you. I think that's something that it's worthwhile to talk to a therapist or psychologist and work through what your specific limits are. But I would say that your brain is vulnerable to this, probably for a better part of a lot of your life. Right. So vulnerable. What does it mean? What does it mean for vulnerable? So that means that that your brain is always going to have that one way ticket to feeling good. OK. OK. That that I don't think is going to change. But the key thing is that there are certain things that you can do to there's certain armor that you can wear to protect you against that vulnerability. So this is things like emotional awareness, like confidence. Yeah. Yeah. Like I've had sometimes like I would be like thinking like, oh, like I'd watch a tennis game of like time. This game. What was Ozzy actually lost? Oh, my God. That would have been crazy. Imagine I went for it. But then I'd think can be like, yeah, but if I don't know what the bad things that's going to happen, you know, I'm no matter what, I'm going to lose the money. Regardless, I'm going to lose the money. Even if I win big, I'll start losing money. What happens if I lose the money? I'm going to go back to the same thing that happened in the past. I ruined my life again. Very good. So so what's changed there? So let's say 10 years ago, you did not think about the consequences. Your brain just saw the upside. And now if we literally look at your thoughts, you have new thoughts in your head, which are no matter what, this is going to end in shambles. This is not going to work out the way that my mind tells me. But that's that that's that vulnerable fund. That's that kid who punched the fire alarm. That's that kid who's like, fuck it. Let's go. Right. So that's going to that part is always going to be there in some form so it can get better. So there's evidence that shows that, you know, some people do grow out of addictions for sure. But the reason that I'm saying that the reason I'm not emphasizing that is because every person who's listening to this may have an addict's mind and they're going to listen to this. And doctors, Dr. K says, oh, hey, I can grow out of this addiction, which means what is their addict's mind going to do if Dr. K says that they can grow out of the addiction? What are they going to do? Slicker? Not they're going to start gambling. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So you're going to like use it as an excuse. Hey, Dr. K said that I can grow out of this. Yeah. That means it's OK. Right. It's OK today. I can grow out of it. I've probably grown out of it now. Let's go. Slicker. Come on. Just just a tenor. Cheeky tenor. Let's go. That's what I was actually wondering, though, about the casinos and stuff like I've been invited to him. Of course you have, bro. So I but my thought is like a guy that smokes weed is addicted to weed. But if he tries heroin, he's not going to be addicted to heroin. That's true. So so and I would say that this is where like it's this is why it's kind of like an individual discussion. So we do know that people will sometimes have drugs of choice. OK. So what that sort of means is that you have a certain vulnerability in your brain. You have a certain genetics that makes you prone to be addicted to, let's say, heroin, but not at all or not marijuana or not alcohol. So we know that that's absolutely there. I would still say, though, that the question I think is not about whether you can get away with it or not. I think because that's that's what the addict's mind says. You may be able to. It's that's it's very individual. But my question is, what's the life that you want to live? Do you want to take the chance? No, you're actually 100 percent right on that. Right. It's not about whether you can get away with it. It's like, what do you want your life to be? Why should I even test myself doing it? Exactly. No, no. Right. And so you say, can you move on? I mean, I would say that in a lot of ways you have. But this is the thing to remember is this is a big mistake that a lot of people make once they get sober. They think I am sober. Confidence. It's the circumstances that you have right now that let you be sober. If you change the circumstances, there's a decent chance you'll relapse. See, sobriety is environmental. This is something that we understand very well from the research. This is why we send people to alcoholics anonymous. Even psychotherapy sometimes is not enough. You need peer support. You need all kinds of other things. So like I used to work at a drug rehab. So people would come for 30 days and they would be sober because they're in a fucking drug rehab. I've been sober for 30 days. The reason you've been sober for it's been easy because. You're not trapped. I mean, you can walk out any time you want to. But like you basically don't have access to anything. But once you start hanging out with the same people, once you start, you know, going back to the stress. Of like your job or your marriage or whatever. Once the environment changes, the vulnerability will arise again. And so can you move on? I mean, I would say it's possible that you would move on. But I think for a lot of people who struggle with addiction, it's not worth it to try. Has been my experience with the majority of my patients. Right. This is just the way that your life is. And you're trading one life for another life. And it's about choosing which life you want. Do you want a life of high highs and low lows? Because let's be honest, the life that you had was pretty fucking epic in a lot of ways. This is something you don't say enough. Everyone talks about addiction like it's a bad thing. And I think on balance, it's a bad thing. But oh, my God, while it's good, it's so good. An ordinary life cannot compete. That feeling of winning six thousand dollars, like you're going to get some check in your bank account for 400 quid because you worked a hard week. Like that can feel good and manly in some ways. But to make six thousand dollars or a quid or pounds or whatever, like in six seconds is there's you just you're going to lose that part of your life. You just can't win like that. Yeah. Yeah. You've got to work for it. That's my also my brain is like, you know, you're working for that money, just throwing it away no matter what, regardless. You know. Yeah. And then this is the other thing, right? So if we look at the addict's mind, when you gamble, you aren't going to lose. You are going to win. And so what does that tell you? All roads lead to one place. It's OK to do it today. You're going to win. Oh, last time it was fucking rigged. She threw or he threw in the sportsman. This time it's going to be different. And conclusion, gamble and conclusion, gamble and whatever it's going to come up with, it's going to be so creative. Yeah. You're you're an artist slicker. Your mind is Leonardo da Vinci of coming up with excuses to let you get all you know. Wrong. Unfortunately, in a bad way, though. Absolutely. Yeah. So this is the problem with addiction is that the power of your mind is turned against you. This is why it's so hard to overcome. Because you're not fighting the addiction, which you're really fighting is yourself. It's like one of these, I don't know, these like animes or video games or whatever, where you've got some parasite in your head that takes control of you. And this is what a lot of people don't understand. People think, oh, I'm addicted. I'm stupid. You're not stupid. The problem is you're fucking brilliant. The problem is that you're gifted. And the problem is that mind is being turned against you. Very weak, very weak. I feel like it like I'm very weak, not able to control myself at those particular points that you are weak in 100 percent. So you have a powerful mind, but your ability to control it is weak. Yeah. So this is like I'm going to go for a walk. And on the other end of the leash, I'm going to have a grizzly bear. This is what it's like to be addicted. And then you're not taking the grizzly bear for a walk. The grizzly bears fucking taking you for a walk. And the goal is to turn the grizzly bear into like a mouse. Right. For you to get so big. And we could talk about how to do that for you to train yourself. And that's where the emotional awareness comes in and the confidence comes in, because the more confident you become and the more aware you become of your internal emotional state, that's how we make the grizzly bear smaller. And that's how we make you stronger. And so as you develop confidence in yourself, there are other tools that we can use. So one of my favorites is Vairagya, which means detachment. OK. Viagra. No, that's another favorite tool, but for a different Vairagya is detachment. So that means that for you to be able to take a step back and say, you know what? I don't actually want this joy. It's OK for me to not have this joy. It's OK for me to have a life that is less than perfect. I can learn to be content with what I have. I've got a nice cup of tea and I can drink this and the joy and pleasure from this is enough. Yes, there's a lot more fun over there. This happens to me like almost every day. There's a part of me. You play any MOBAs, League of Legends or Dota or anything? Yep, unfortunately. Yeah, League of Legends. I play Dota and almost every day I have this desire to play Dota. Right. And one day I'll crack and I'll play some Dota. And the thing is I fucking suck, right? Because unless you practice, you're bad. And I'm like, I'm tired of being bad. I don't want to lose. I want to win. And then I think to myself, OK, now I'm going to get serious. I'm going to start practicing. I'm going to get good at this game. And then because I really want that, then I take a step back and I ask myself, is this really what I want? Do I want to spend like I could literally, I could write a book or I can get good at Dota? Or I can get good at Dota 2? That's the same amount of effort, honestly. You like literally write a book or I could get good at Dota 2. And so we have to learn to detach. We have to learn to take a step back from, OK, this joy in life is like not mine. Like it's OK. Let me like learn to be content with what I have. Because if you really stop and think about it, your joy in life is actually can be pretty high. You won't get that same level of dopamine, but you can enjoy taking a piss, man. Like one of the most blissful activities is if you've been like, you know, you've been in a car for a while and you're waiting for the bathroom and like, oh, my God, just taking a piss. Yeah, true. Right. There's joy everywhere in life. We just don't know how to look for it. We don't need any of that stuff. So can you move on? I think the answer is maybe. Can you get away with gambling in a casino? Maybe. I think the question is what kind of life do you want to live and do you want to risk it? Is it worth it? Right. Yeah. That's not a question I can answer for you. Yeah, it's of course I'm the one that has to answer that. And like, no, you're right, because like I do. I used to think of that as well a lot. Like when I was streaming, I was like, what? I was so I didn't think of it like that during the times when I was streaming. I was messaging a girl thinking of getting married to her. Well, I didn't think of my minus. I was just thinking, no, I'm going to marry you, you know, but to realize it when you're actually rock bottom, you actually come to realize what happened, what you did and who may have affected. Because I didn't think of when it was me when I was streaming and I was doing it, I was like suicidal thoughts and I want to do suicide. But I don't really think of the people that I took money from because they could have had suicidal thoughts from what I was doing to them. You know, that all came in when I, you know, was actually start working. And, you know, when I got caught and, you know, it really started making me realize more and more. So let's talk about this. So this is another thing. So there are six neuroscientists. This is kind of my theory. But in my opinion, there are six neuroscientific deficits in people who have addictions. You stumbled on a second one, which is a lack of empathy. So we don't our brain is not wired. It's not your fault. Right. This is very important to understand because empathy is a skill just like anything else. It's taught to people. So if you have parents that were very empathic and it sounds like your parents were not very empathic, it sounds like your your parents. We haven't talked too much about it, but I would guess that there were times when you were young when you wanted something and your dad was basically like, no, he didn't give a shit what you want. He didn't give a shit what you wanted. He didn't think about you. There's right and there's wrong. If you do right, you're OK. If you're I don't give a shit about your opinion and your feelings, bro. Like, you know, yeah. So when we were raised with strict parents like that, they don't teach us empathy. Our parents are your dad wasn't like, oh, slicker beta. I'm sorry. I know you want to do this and bet. I love you so much, but we cannot bet. He's like, yeah, bomb you stick. No, I'll be lucky with that was a bomb. Right. You fucking read your hour. I don't care that you have ADHD. I don't care that your mind literally cannot concentrate. I don't care about any of that. When I tell you to do something, you fucking do it. I don't care about your feelings. I don't care about what you think. I don't care about anything that's going on inside. Your internal environment is completely useless to me. And when you grow up in a household like that, how are you supposed to learn as a seven-year-old child to think about other people? What you're taught is that there's right and there's wrong. Haram or halal, right? Two things. Yeah. Right and wrong. We don't care about your feelings. And when you're raised like that, I'm not trying to be anti-Muslim. My parents were like that and Hindus are like that. Christians are like that. It's different parents. It's not religion specific. Which is sad. But anyway, you know, so I think that that's like another thing where you don't you don't know how to think about other people. And that's not your fault. But you can start right. You can start by sort of thinking a little bit about, OK, how does this person feel like? What will this and you can listen to other people. And this is where we get to your question. Well, you asked the question about women. Would a woman be OK with what? You asked some question about women. Because I like what they be OK with my past. Yeah. So like how awkward that be. Oh, I scammed during the K. You know, that's the first. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but like would a woman be OK? I have no idea. Understand that women just like men are individuals and some will be OK with it and some will not be OK with it. And I would bet I would bet money that. OK, more of them will be. I don't know. I don't even know. I'm not saying 51 percent, but I think as compared to you not having a gambling problem, I think more humans would be OK with that. Yeah. Right. But I think this is the cool thing is that I think that. Huh? No. How? What do you mean? How would they be OK with it? How would anyone be OK with it? Yeah, but you said 51 percent. No, so I'm not saying that 51. I don't know what the percentage is. I'm saying if you take two human beings, one who has a gambling addiction and one who doesn't have a gambling addiction. I think more people would be easily accepting of the person with no addiction. Oh, sorry. Yeah. Right. So no, I did a bad job explaining it. So I'm with you that it's it's it's another uphill battle that you have to fight or climb. And at the same time, I think that like my experience working with people who are addicted is that like love is like pretty fucking powerful, man. And I think the main thing is that, you know, you kind of say that you've grown from it. And like I've seen so many healthy relationships come out of recovery from addiction because when you're addicted to something, you have to learn about yourself in a way that the average person doesn't. You have to work so hard to be normal. And that work ethic, that self-understanding is actually makes you better at relationships. Yeah. So if you've never been addicted, this internal emotional awareness, this ego, all this kind of crap like you've done a lot of soul searching slicker. You kind of get what I'm saying. You're still in the process. But even simple shit like so many women will complain because their boyfriends don't make their fucking bed and do their fucking laundry and are not like because they've got mama. Right. And especially if you're I mean, is your mom Iraqi, too? Yeah, I'm right. So like an awesome fucking Middle East, South Asian, like that's the worst. Like women in the audience know what I'm talking about. If you date like an Indian boy or Pakistani boy or like Iraqi boy, like, you know, their mamas will wipe their ass when they're 45. I was getting when I was like 15, my mom used to drive me. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. That's that's our culture. We infantilize. That that that that that. We infantilize our kids in our cultures. Right. Oh, my God. Slicker is such a good boy, such a great boy. Like, don't ever leave. You're worried about women not accepting you because you have a gambling addiction. You need to worry more about what your mom is going to do with your girlfriend and vice versa. Oh, my days. Oh, actually, she did accept her. To be honest, I was shocked. I was like, my mom got me. Yeah, very. Well, yeah, no, you're right, though. So I think you give people a chance. Right. And I think you recognize that. I mean, I'm not saying that your life would be better if you didn't have a game. I mean, I think if you didn't have a gambling addiction, I think you can easily say that your life would have been better. But I think that you've got to also understand that the way that you're growing out of this, I think, will make you a healthier partner for a relationship. And some people are willing to see that and some people aren't. And that's OK. I've seen enough people who are married to and have healthy relationships with recovering addicts to where I wouldn't. I mean, is it a disadvantage? Yes. But I don't think it's insurmountable. I feel like it was like I paid less attention to her and paid more, obviously, more attention to gambling. Like it was even like times where it was important. I wouldn't even buy her stuff, spend it on myself and go all in on a game. Yeah. So I think if you want to have a good girlfriend, just don't be a shitty boyfriend. Right. No facts. Facts. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So I wouldn't worry. I mean, like it's it's a disadvantage and people will judge you for it, Slicker. They will. And I wish that weren't the case. But and that's why I say I move on and I look at my past. And if anyone tries to attack it with me, I'm like, you know what? I mean, anymore. So I'm a smile like that. It was a joke. It was a joke of a past. Does that make any sense? Yeah, I think that's your way of developing a narrative around it. Right. Like you disrespect someone else, disrespects the person you used to be and you disrespect the person used to be. That's not even unhealthy. Well, that person was a joke and I'm no longer going to be that person. Yeah. That sounds inspirational to me. I even make jokes about it, like even for my tweet. I made a joke. Now you tell me if that's OK or good. Should I send it to you or do you want to like, should I just explain it? Explain it. I'll explain it. So I basically I went I went to London saw Lamborghini, took a picture in front of it and I tweet out saying, guys, just one big in sports. And like, you know, thank you for everyone who's been there for me as a joke. You know, people are believing about put like hashtags saying like this is sarcasm and stuff. You know, that's what I want to do. I want to look at it and just be like, you know what? Just laughing. I think that is a way for me to move forward. It's you know, not take gambling too serious and just be like, you know, it'll be like it's a joke. So I think that that is seems consistent with who you are. Right. That's the kid. That's the way that the kid who punches the fire alarm is going to grow out of this. And at the same time, slicker, I think you've got to understand that for the people who you scammed money from for you to be joking about it, it's going to hurt. It's not going to be received the best from some people. I'm not saying it's right or wrong. That's not it's not my place to judge right or wrong. I understand that. True, true, true. So I never want to disrespect them. I'd never want to disrespect them. It's just I know the audience that's out there. Like if they message, I've reached out to a lot of them and I've just checked up on them, hope they're OK and stuff like that, you know, and they kind of some of them know I'm kind of like streaming and stuff like that. And then, of course, if anyone is offended, like if Ludwig or any of those people said, like, what the fuck are you doing? I'm sorry. You know, I apologize. And I think you've got to figure out what's right for you. But I think that it's very common for human beings to use humor to overcome hardship. Yeah, yeah. There's even some interesting like papers about Jewish people. And hopefully I'm not getting canceled here. This is not disrespectful, hopefully. But, you know, the Jewish people are very famous, like even Jewish comedians will talk about their predisposition towards humor. And it's because they've gone through so much hardship that it's almost become culturally a part of the culture to be funny. And if that offends anyone, I apologize. But like that's what we just sort of know is that when when cultures and families and stuff like that, when human beings go through difficulty, we laugh. And that's one of the ways that we move past it. But it is wrong. It is wrong. It is. Yeah. No, I. That's like I said, that's for you to decide. I'm not saying that it's right or wrong. No matter what, I will never be able to escape from it. It's going to be there for the rest of my life. And so that's why I say, like, for myself, I could use that and just show that, you know, like, you. Sure. Every time I tweet, I get all that begging guy or that scumming guy. So all I can say is that I'm going to have to start like going that there's no whatever you say ain't going to hurt me in a way. But yeah, no. So I think there's a couple of things there. So one is one is that like I think it's I think whatever you say ain't going to hurt me is very. Reflect. I don't think it's bad, but I also think like it's OK for things to hurt you. Being hurt is not the end of the world. Right. Being able to handle the hurt, being able to process the hurt lacks confidence. What? What was that? What lacks confidence? Myself, I lack confidence when I'm like, OK, I'm scared to tweet. I'm scared to say something. I'm scared to do this and that. You know, I'm going to get this response goes to, you know, I show these guys like, OK, you go try it ahead and attack me with it. Well, I'm not going to. But any of the people that are scammed, of course, like again, like I will not want to disrespect them. Yeah. Yeah. So I see what you're saying about using humor to kind of build up your confidence. But I would say that there's even a level past that, which is like I don't know if this makes sense, but to be confident in yourself as a flawed person to where you don't need to flex. Right. So you want to know you ask me a question. What do I think a man is? I think a man is someone who doesn't need to flex. OK, which is interesting because most of the alpha males out there are doing the exact opposite. Yep. Yep. Yep. True. And they're maybe I'm wrong. Right. So this is just my opinion. You asked me what I. Someone who doesn't need to flex. Right. You're you. You're flawed. You're not better or worse than any other human being. You can be better at some stuff and worse at some stuff. That's all fine. But just someone who doesn't need to flex. And for the record, I mean, I don't think that that's just a man. I think that's all human beings. Right. OK. Yeah. Right. But I think when it comes to like healthy masculinity, like I think a big part of unhealthy masculinity is when we use. See, healthy masculinity should come from like a place of stability or tranquility, not a place of how can I say this? Not a lack or something that's missing. So if I if I lack confidence in myself and then I like if I flex to show off and stuff like that, that I think is healthy. It's it's whatever is stable and tranquil within you should that's where masculinity should really come from. If masculinity is trying to solve some deficiency about yourself, like if I feel like I'm not attractive or if I feel like I'm a loser and then I'm going to become an alpha because I'm no longer lose. I don't think that that's healthy. It can be actually can be healthy. It can be a stage of healthiness, so it can be one step forward now that I think about it. But especially like if you do get hate, though, I feel like, you know, like for me, it's true what you're saying, because like for me, I actually want to do the only one person I actually want to impress right now is myself. I want to impress myself. I would improve myself, you know, and of course, to be honest, even my family and stuff. But that's going to be hard. But, you know, for my right now, I'd want to improve myself and impress myself, you know, and trust myself. So that I think is beautiful. I mean, I think the goal here should not be I think the goal is you should become someone that you can be proud of. Yeah, it's not to be proud of yourself. How do I develop confidence? How do I develop pride? That's the wrong question. Become someone that pride is natural. That you don't have to try. Everyone's asking you how do I become confident because just be the person who is confident. Right. So think about treating yourself with respect. That means being careful about what you put into your body. That means being careful about how you take care of yourself. It means prioritizing yourself, valuing yourself. That's where confidence comes from. Yeah. Here we are like going externally and trying to say, OK, if I do these five things, I will develop confidence. But internally, like you're not worth it yet. So start to prioritize yourself. This is beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. It's still like I want to I feel like. It's I don't want it to crawl back. I don't want it to crawl back into my life like that's one scary thing because I know I know 100 percent one little touch and I'll be back into it. I got offered a contract of casino slots. No, CSGO gambling. So what not what originated my gambling because I was e-sports. They offered me case openings. You just click open cases and stuff like that. And it was going to be a good amount because I'm actually I am jobless right now. So, you know, I just basically do streaming entertainment. I'm not going to lie. You know, side money. I mean, everyone loves that, you know, and, you know, when they offered me, I was like, wow, this could, you know, keep me getting back, get me back to where I was. But what is the outcome now for my mind is right now is like I see dirty money. And when I was streaming, when I used to make good amount of money, I used to be like, I want to kill myself if I ever drop back to like the minimum wage. You know, it's not nice to say or use the word or play around with the word kill yourself. I used to be like, I don't want to live anymore if I'm going to go back to a normal job. What happened with everything when it all came out? That's where I said I was grateful. I was grateful to work a normal job and make an actual good amount. I don't really think of money. I just thought of like, you know, improving, improving as a person, being grateful, thankful, having my parents by my side, having another chance in life. You know, that's beautiful. I know not a lot of people get that. And that's also another thing where I should be very extremely grateful is that there is not XQC or Ludwig for a lot of other gambling addicts out there. You know, and I feel like they're not to be hated because I also I also think and I feel for them because I know there is a lot of people that go crazy for this and, you know, get angry and all that stuff. And, you know, I don't know, you know, like when I went to therapy, it was I thought it was it was just bullshit. Honestly, I thought it was bullshit when I went in on Hill. Oh, because I was like, how can you change me when I need to change me? What are you going to do? Give me a drug and say something inside of me and make me a different person. No. But when I went, I got to speak to someone, you know, not like the Internet or your, you know, your piece of shit. You know, those are not the people I should be speaking to at that point. The therapist, you know, oh, hey, you know, it was someone I could feel comfortable to come out with and explain it. And then she was like, you know, a friend and she was she gave me a paper. She said, what are the fun things you like about gambling? Gave it a few. What are the bad things about gambling? Gave her a lot. What do you do when you're not gambling? What do you do? It was a lot. And that went inside my head and that's where I explained it to you. I was like, oh, OK, you know, this really this is the reason why I shouldn't do it. And this is the reason why what is the point in doing it? You know, because I can actually smile now. I know I know I shouldn't be, but I can't keep saying that. You know, I'm just going to be like I can actually smile now. You know, I can actually hopefully see a future. I don't know. To be honest, that's bullshit. I still don't see, you know, a future because like that is me, me. But until I get a woman or something, maybe I can't. Until I pay the remaining off, then I can have a future. You know, I think that's that sounds super reasonable to me, man. Like, I think you're just you're on your journey and I think it's appropriate for you to not see a future, but also to acknowledge that just because you can't see it now doesn't mean that it won't come. Right. Right. So this is the other tricky thing about a future is like whether you can see it or not, there's only one direction to move in life, which is forward. Yeah. So everyone's talking about like I think this is a big problem we have in society, or everyone's like, OK, I'm trying to build towards this future. What's your 10 year plan? What's your 20 year plan? Like, I mean, no one can fucking see the future. Everyone's so caught up in 10 or 20 years plans instead of what should be caught up in is like, what's my like today plan? What's my five minutes from now plan? Like, what's my like, what am I going to put into my body today? Yeah. Is it going to be like a banana or is it going to be a cookie? And we can make and this is the interesting thing is that a future is not built up when you plan for the future. A future is built up through actions today. That's the only way that future is built. And so I, you know, I think you're on your journey. It sounds good where you are. It sounds like you have a blessing. A blessing. Trust me. A blessing. 100 percent a blessing. I'm even able to fucking click the live board. You know, like I have even when I started, like when I went live, I was like, I'm going to expect 200 viewers or less. Get to 300, 400. I'm like, I'm blessed, grateful more and more. That's I feel like, you know, through mistakes could come good things in the worst way. Of course, that's not nice. And, you know, but like everyone does mistakes. No one's perfect. That's what I believe. You see all these people out there, you know, like even in a streaming world, they're like, yo, that's where you was mentioned about ego. You think you're all it. You think you're special. And you think I will never be like that guy because I used to do that. I used to see gamblers even though I was gambling. I was like, look at this idiot. Imagine. Oh, why would you do that? Bro, I would even be like some streamers. Why would you spend your money like that? Why are you being an idiot? You're a streamer. You have a future. But that came out to be me. That came out to be me. And, you know, you know, the tricky thing is that you're a streamer. You know, the tricky thing there is it's it's when we believe we have a future, it's when we're assured that we have a future. It's when the future is guaranteed that we actually make the worst choices. Oh, because I have a future. It's guaranteed. I can afford to fuck around. I can afford to do this. I can afford to do this because, oh, like the future is bright. You know, so I think we get scammed by the future all the time. Right. Yeah, I don't know. I try and I won't ever forget for what I did, though. I won't. Good. Like it's like, yeah, like I shouldn't. I shouldn't forget for what I did. And especially to the people. And, you know, I'm always of course, you know, these people I'll always look up to, you know, but I don't know. I don't know for myself. I don't see. I don't know. It's so awkward when I see it like as in I do speak to quite a few women. And that was the most awkward thing when she said that to me. She's like, I do know what you did in the past. I was like, yeah, I cut off. I don't know where to go with that leading conversation. I don't know how you. Yeah, that is me. I'm what you're going to do by it. I can't say that. Yeah. So would you like some help with that? Please. OK, so now let's get concrete. OK, so I mean, you know, I think when someone acknowledges it, like you can say. I mean, so there are a couple of different moves here. So one move is to be humorous, right? You can say, well, like, honestly, that's great because you save me the trouble of like, you know, being who I am, I never know when to tell someone. It's fucking awkward, right? Right. Hi, my name is Slicker. I'm a gambling addict. Do you tell people on the first date? Do you tell people on the second date? Do you tell like when do you break the news? So, you know, you can just kind of joke about it. You can say like, look, I'm glad you know, it saves me the trouble of telling you. Laugh it off. You know, also, I think it sends the right kind of energy. That's one thought. I think. Another thing that you can do is just kind of own it, right? You can say like, yeah, that was a really dark period of my life and like, I'm really trying to move on and I made some progress and just kind of own it. Right. And it's like something that I work on every day. Like, you don't know what they're thinking of. They're like, you know, that's the thing. That's what comes into my thoughts. Like, she knows about that. She probably like, he might scam me. No, no, no, no. But Slicker, you don't know what they're thinking either. Right. So you've got to be careful about your mind. So when you feel a lack of confidence, you will project that lack of confidence into the thoughts of others. I don't know what they're thinking and you don't know what they're thinking. It's not your job to make them think a certain way. If you really want to have a relationship with another human being, you're not trying to. This is what's so fucked up is that we're so manipulative for people's thoughts. If I say this, they'll think this. And if I say this, they'll think this. We're sitting there trying to control people's thoughts all the time. So we shape what we say to control their thinking about us. It's manipulative. Instead, speak your truth and let them judge. It's their right to judge. Right. And if people want to judge you ill for it, that's not someone that you want a relationship with anyway. Why are you going to go chasing them down? And that's their choice, right? They have they have every right to not want to be a hundred percent. So just let that go. You're walking your journey and you're going to represent yourself as authentically and positively as possible and let people judge you the way that they're going to judge you. It's all right, though. My mom said that I'm going to be getting married to my cousin soon, so that's all right. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. That's not a surprise. I was actually joking. Yeah, yeah. I was internally I was debating whether I wanted to joke back with you about, you know, who's going to get you ready for your wedding night? Is your mom going to be there and towel you off after? I told you so it would be even weird. Like, actually, I don't want to say it here. I don't want to say it. Yeah. Oh, my God. I keep ruining it because I say it's been. There are people in my family that are cousins. So maybe that's my outcome. Came like this. Yeah, we're not going to touch that with 10 foot pole, bro. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, I mean, you know, that's a little bit more common in some cultures. Is it is it coming in? Do apologize. You're Indian, correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. Is it coming in India? I want to say no, but there is there is certainly like some kinds of restrictions and things like that. So like it's changed a lot now. But, you know, when my parents got married, they were different casts. And so like spells and stuff. No, no, no. So in India, there's like a caste system. So there's like categories of people. Right. So there's like the priest caste and there's like the warrior caste, the merchant caste and the laborer caste. And so you normally would marry within your caste, but the caste is pretty big. So like, you know, my grandmother, like, for example, would not, you know, back in my village, which has like 300 people, like what would happen is we'd go like one or two towns over to find like a spouse. And so you don't you're not marrying like within the family, but you also like want to be careful. You want to marry someone who you have some relationship with. So, you know, that they're from a good family or bad family. There's all this kind of stuff, but things are changing now. Do you think it's wrong to do that? I'm not doing that. Do what? Listen, cousin marriage. I mean, I think genetically, it's not a good idea. You know, because like, I feel like I have a power and I'm not even joking with you. I actually believe I've got I can I don't know. It's like I'm creative, not in. Okay. People like, yes, you're going to say the, you know, the scam way, but not just even then. Like even in games, Dr. K like is I'm the brain is like 5D. I'm using. But what does that have to do with marrying cousins? Mom and dad are cousins. Okay. And also like they created and does that mean I'm an inbred? No, I'm not going to. So I don't know what you like. Okay. So look, here's what we know. I blame my parents for my gambling addiction. If you want to. So here's here's just what we know about genetics. Okay. So we have two kinds of genes. We have autosomal dominant. We have dominant and recessive genes. Okay. The problem is that sometimes if you have a recessive gene and you've got two copies of it, you can get some kind of problem. Usually. So the problem is that the closer you are genetically. Right. Like the greater the likelihood is that you'll get two recessive genes and then you end up with some kind of like. You're basically giving information of me. I see. But but I mean, I think cousins are I mean, we can map this out. It's been a little while since I took genetics. Let's understand what the so you're 50 percent with your parents. Right. And parents of 50 percent with each other and then their kids share 50 percent. So, I mean, I think it's like maybe they share like one eighth of their genetic material or something. I mean, it's it's still high. I wouldn't. Biologically, it's not the best bet. But I think the other thing we have to understand is that in these cultures where you do have like closer familiar marriages, there are all kinds of other societal pressures. So I think the cultures that do this kind of thing do it for a reason. Like, generally speaking, when, you know, whole cultures are doing something, there's some kind of evolutionary advantage. But generally speaking, what we want to do is like mix our DNA as much as possible with like foreign people, because that's when you get. Positive dominant traits from everybody else. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't you don't need to worry. I'm not going to be doing this anyway. OK, I mean, yeah, I'm not. I mean, it's your life, bro, and you do what you want to do. Yeah, no, no, no. It's like that's not my type. Like to do stuff like that with my cousins. But yeah, I don't know. I don't know. But it does make sense. A lot of what you said, Dr. Ken, I really do appreciate you. A lot of us, a lot of the streamers do. We need people like you, you know, like we don't have. Well, I'm not going to label myself as a streamer, but a lot of the streamers or even when I was a streamer, we needed people like you. It's not just we were just so hypnotized to our chat. We would believe whatever they would say. We like, yep, you're right. I'm so sorry. Yep, please. Sorry. But then when we talk to you, we're like, listen to you more and don't listen to them. Yeah, I also made me like, obviously, I started learning that more often when I was working at doing a normal job. So, I mean, look, I honestly I appreciate that. And I think one thing that I want to highlight is that I can't do what I do without you. So this is what a lot of people miss, right? Is it's not me. It's us. Right. And like the reason we we do interviews like this is because it's not even about streamers. It's like, bro, do you get how many people out there have gambling addictions? Well, I know. And even the people that I pretended a lot. And the problem is that we don't you know, when when people discover that they're addicts or whatever, like there's someone who's going to be 18, 19, who's watching this right now. And they're starting the path that you're on. And the problem is when you were 18 or 19, no one had done an interview like this. No one had talked to a gambling addict about what was your life like? What was your story like? It's embarrassing. Absolutely. Right. And so who's taken like I mean, here we are talking about everything we're talking about your life. It's not it hasn't been like sunshine and rainbows. Right. It's been like the worst parts of you and the parts of you that hurt other people and got you canceled and all this kind of shit. I mean, it takes balls to do that. But when you do this, other people hear it. It makes it less. I mean, it makes it more OK to have a problem. We all talk about destigmatizing mental illness and destigmatizing. Right. I'm not saying you're mentally ill or not mentally ill. That's for you and your therapist to decide. What I'm saying is that as we struggle, we have to have these conversations because when we have these conversations, people realize, oh, maybe I have a problem. And if anyone out there is listening to this and is like, oh, shit, this sounds like me, maybe you should go see therapist. Right. Go and get help. And we heard from you how helpful it was and how you thought it was bullshit at the beginning. Like, that's incredibly valuable, too. There are times when I feel like therapy is a bullshit and I do therapy. There's times it is bullshit. We're pretending to do therapy instead of actually doing therapy. But that's conversation for a different day. So thank you for coming on. And I appreciate your appreciation. I'll take it. Yeah, no, it's a blessing. I appreciate you so much. Thank you. I was, you know, it was good meeting you as well in the awards. Nice guy. I swear to God. I was kind of drunk though that time. Yeah. Well, I, yeah, I do. We talked for like less than five minutes. Right. Yeah, I think I was there. I think I was, you know, the most immature way to say this. I think I was dick riding you a lot, Dr. Candace. I didn't perceive it that way. I mean, I think you were just expressing appreciation, which like that's not dick riding, bro. Like that is one thing that needs to change. Right. We can express appreciation. A dude can express another appreciation for another dude without it being dick riding. True, that's true. So everyone calls me a dick rider for my idols. But who's your father? Who's your role models? What do you say? Who are my role models? You used to listen to Tupac back in the days. I like changes. So you like the mainstream music. Yeah, I ain't cool like you are, man. I'll be the first to admit it. I'm not going to say I'm cool, but I mean, do you, do you, what sort of, are you into hip hop or are you, because you don't give me that vibe. Not to be rude. You just don't give me that vibe of hip hop. I can't see you like, yo, first off, fuck the bitch in the, you know, you look like the sort of guy that's like, you know, got that classical music on, you know. I don't care for class. I mean, honestly, dude, I listened to a lot of instrumental music. Okay. But I also like video game music. Like I'm like, same, same, same. Yeah. So like, I like, you know, like, yeah, I listened to video game music. Witcher 3 music? Huh? Witcher 3? I mean, I liked Witcher 3, but I, usually when I listen to stuff, it's like, it's all over the place. So I like a lot of Street Fighter 2 remixes. Devil May Cry. I haven't played Devil May Cry, but Final Fantasy. Metal Gear Solid? Yeah, I like some Metal Gear Solid stuff. There's a lot of really good music there. So I usually listen to music that I play, but then I also listen to a lot of like EDM kind of stuff recently. EDM? Heavy drug music? Yeah. It's making me really wonder about doing drugs. And now I'm like wondering, like, should I go to like some festival in Europe and, you know, tie this stuff one day? If that ever happens, Dr. K, I'm here for you. I'm here for you. Get in a call, I can help you out. You can explain it to me. I got you, Dr. K. So, yeah, I mean, but I listened to a lot of stuff that has a little bit of a beat, but not a whole lot of words. And it helps me like write and stuff. Right. But then I've also started to appreciate, I mean, silence too. Like, I like silence. Which I think fits with what your impression of me is, which is I'm not listening to hip hop very often and stuff like that. But, you know, it's interesting. I've started to discover a little bit more. I think also since like having kids and stuff, like because I think they listen to music and... How many kids? I have two kids. Yeah, man. That's... I wish I could have, you know, been a responsible father or something. That would be nice. You know, I mean, but like also this is another thing. Imagine my kids. Imagine I have kids. Daddy, what do you used to do? Nothing. Hey, daddy, you scum this much. You know what I'm saying? Like, you know, I can't be a father like that. Of course you can. Why not? I don't know. That's not sort of father you would want. You don't want a kid to have a father like that. You know, a criminal. I see. I see. I know. I see. I see what you're trying to do. I mean, so like... So look, no father is going to be perfect. Right? And I mean, I think that... I think your kids may be better off than many other kids. So if you've got an active addiction while you're raising kids, that's certainly bad for the kids. Oh, I understand. There's no question about that. But I would say that if you're someone who's in recovery, like having a dad who knows what addiction is, is probably a pretty big advantage for your kids. To be able to teach them about, hey, like... This is what happened to me and Machito. Yeah, and I'm going to teach you and prepare for a world that is becoming more addictive. Where there are more designer drugs coming out. Where video games are getting more addictive. Gambling sites are becoming more accessible. Where we are breeding strains of marijuana that have higher THC concentrations. Right? The world that your kids are going in. Like if we're talking about character creation here and having a dad who's a former addict, like that could help them a lot. I mean, shit, I was addicted to video games. And I think it helps my kids a lot in terms of the way that I teach them about video games and technology. I mean, fuck, I like literally wrote a book about it. And like, you know, someone's chosen to publish it. That's crazy. And I wouldn't have been able to write that book unless I struggled myself with addiction. And my parents tried everything and they just didn't know what they were dealing with because technology is different. See, here's the thing you got to understand about... It's hard for parents now. So it used to be that you had to worry about addiction when your kid hit teenage years. Right? That's when you like you start talking to them about, oh, like alcohol is haram beta. No, no alcohol. Right. But now, I mean, kids are getting addicted at two years old, three years old. You walk, you go to the grocery store, you just walk around, you'll see like half the kids in the grocery store are going to be sitting in the cart on on their parents' phone. Yeah. And I don't know. I mean, I would I would say, Slicker, I get what you're saying that you would what I'm hearing is that you actually feel like ashamed that your dad used to be a criminal. But I mean, so like if you had kids, you're right. So you're like, man, like, I don't like, you know, that's fucking pathetic, like to have a dad who's a criminal. But I think you got to you are who you are. And hopefully you'll grow out of... I can do the fingers is true because I could do what and prevent them from doing it. Like, I'm not going to believe my dad. I never my dad was, you know, the best father I could ever ask for. And that's what they're going to think about you, too. Yeah. And like, you know, I could be like the one that would be money manager. Well, but they can I could be like money managing them and wait, me money managing. Yeah, I have to call my sister or something to manage their money. I mean, like, you know, I could prevent them from doing what I did. I mean, I would hope so. That's what we try to do as parents. Right. We try to we try to help our children make different mistakes from the ones that we made. No. Yeah. Yeah. Facts. Nowadays, it's easy to access gambling. You know, you need very well. Do you think it's all right for gambling sites to be available or do you think it should be illegal? I think we use laws to try to bandaid a lot of more fundamental problems in our society. So like the approach I've taken, I don't know whether they should be legal or not legal. But I think that the basic problem that we have with gambling sites isn't whether they're legal or not legal. It's that we have not trained people to understand how their mind works. That's a far bigger problem, in my opinion. Right. Right. So every child should learn emotional awareness, empathy, understanding where your desires are coming from, what an addict's mind looks like. Yeah. No. And literally what changed with me, I was the same fucking kid who failed out of school and was 10 years later was teaching at Harvard Medical School. Same kid. The only difference is someone taught me how my mind works. How did you get into Harvard? It took a long time. Harvard's the best, right, in the world? I think it depends on what you're talking about, but I think there's a lot of places that give Harvard a run for their money, for sure. Right. I thought it was awesome. I think it's a great place. It's a wonderful institution to learn at. I had a very positive experience. But is it the best? I don't know. I didn't go to other places, so I can't compare. Yeah. The difference is just understanding how your mind works. Yeah. I mean, now you're right. I just want to, I just, I skipped school. I'm not proud, but you know, like I just didn't see myself in school. It was too hard. I did graphics design. Yeah. I did graphics design and it was just, even when I went into like applying for the job, I mean, the university, I was like, are you sure you want to do this? I was like, why? They're like, because getting a job out of this is not easy. I'm like, what the hell? You don't try to get me in or something. Yeah. And I think that's the challenge, right? Is probably the reason you did graphics design is because it sounds like you had under treated ADHD in school. And you couldn't do you couldn't do school the way that normal kids can do school, neurotypical kids. That's not your fault. Yeah. Yeah. I think the only thing that's really getting in the way of you having being a good father is you got to stop riding my dick, man. That's not going to get your kids. I mean, if I do have kids, I'll just make sure they educate themselves on Tupac and stuff, you know, at the age of three. Great. I mean, I think he's a he's a he's a force for a reason. I mean, Tupac is who he is for a reason. 100% 100%. He I love him. I love him to bits. I swear to God. I don't even want to say that. But say if like, for example, say if your kids became a pro, like was grinded a lot of games, would you would you be OK with that? It would depend. OK. So I think nowadays you can see it's easy to make money off the Internet and a living from the Internet. But would you want them to be in that life? Because there's a lot of toxicity in that life. Yeah. So so that's where like it's I don't accept that the life is fixed. Right. So I think the way that you prepare someone to live that life determines whether they can handle the toxicity or not. So I want them to do whatever they want to do. And I view my job is preparing them to be able to do it in the healthiest way possible. So if they said, hey, I want to become a pro gamer, I would say, OK, fine. But we're not going to let you become a degenerate. Right. So like if they were, you know, so like you still have to wake up every day and you have to like eat healthy food and stuff like that. And the interesting thing is if you really want to be a pro gamer and even I don't know about streamers, but I think what we also know is like taking care of your health and your mental wellness, like with streaming as well and pro gaming actually correlates with better success. This idea of like a degenerate streamer or degenerate gamer, I think is like that's decreasing. So we I mean, we found that when you support, we've had a sample size of about 400 now. So when we work with we work with 400 streamers and helping them with their mental and like helping them with their motivation and kind of like eating healthy and sleeping on time and shit like that, that actually increases their like follower count sub count view count by 171 percent. Being a degenerate, the Internet may love you for it, but long term, it's not a good strategy. Not a good, yeah, true, true. Anyway, any last thoughts or questions, Slicker, before we wrap up for the day? The thing is, you know what it is when you want to think and you really have that thing inside your head, you just can't remember it. But you just, yeah, that's me. I have something always in my head and I just can't remember it. I feel like whenever you ask me questions, I feel like I'm being challenged. It's like your police asking me questions. I'm like, I'm sorry. I don't remember. You know, I'm panicking Russian, so I can't know. That's OK. I'm sorry for making you wait. That's OK. I'm sorry for making you feel that way. And I think that that, too, is not your fault. That's something that actually so this is important. That happens a lot with kids with ADHD. So what happens when you have a kid with ADHD is when you're in a classroom and your teacher asks you a question, you haven't been paying attention and you get punished for it. Yeah, so your brain associate is tells you you learn this lesson. This is really sad, actually, that getting asked a question means we're in danger. That's your response. It's beautiful that you're self aware enough to recognize that very few people will discover that. Yeah, I've always noticed that it's scary. Right. We're getting called on is the most terrifying thing in the world. And here I am asking you questions. You're like, oh, shit. And that's because it's baked in. When you were six years old and seven years old in school, your teacher would call on you. Yeah. And then everyone in the classroom would laugh because you weren't paying attention or you'd get punished or the teacher would shake their head or your parents would ask you questions and you wouldn't be paying attention. And then the bamboo. Yeah. Life of ADHD. Yep. I appreciate you, though. I appreciate it. Likewise. Thank you, man. Thank you so much. I appreciate you coming on today and sharing your story. You know, I'm sorry that you've had such a rough go of it. But honestly, I'm optimistic. I have a feeling I'm hopeful. I can't see the future, but I'm hopeful that in a year or two, you're going to be I hope you'll be very happy with where you are and hopefully you'll be in a relationship. Well, maybe I get a dream. Another one dollars. Something to know. No, but seriously, give people the one piece of advice. If I can give that is give people the chance to reject you. Don't do it for them. Well, I've been rejected a lot of times. Good. So far. And I mean, it helps a lot. But yeah, I'll I'll take that to know a lot of things you said as well. Well, definitely like it made a lot of sense, you know, I'm surprised. Don't really listen in class. It was a bit hard when he was writing that stuff down because it was like I was in class again. But, you know, it eventually caught up to me and it made a lot of sense, you know. But yeah, I appreciate you, though. Thank you so much. Likewise. Take care of my friend and good luck with everything. Thank you so much. Take it easy. Take care, man. Bye. Bye. Bye. All right. We're going to talk about this for just a hot second before we wrap up for the day. So this is important. See, when we lose confidence. We save people the trouble of rejecting us. By rejecting ourselves. We think to ourselves, oh, this person would never want to hang out with me. This person would never want to date me. So I'm not going to bother. Now, why do we do this? It's not because we're idiots. It's to protect ourselves. Because where did we learn that people reject us? Because people reject us. So we get stuck. It's really terrible. We get stuck because we've tried to connect with people and we get rejected. And then we feel bad about ourselves. And then we see this version of ourselves who is a reject. And once we start thinking of ourselves as a reject, we do the work for them. We're going to skip that step where they reject us. I'm going to skip it because I'm a reject. It's fixed. So one of the biggest things that you can do for yourself, for your confidence and for your relationships is to give people the chance to reject you. Share who you are. And will it hurt? Absolutely. But then we get stuck because we have a choice between a coin flip of them rejecting us or not rejecting us or us taking the decision away from them and pre rejecting ourselves all the time. So you have a less than 100 percent chance of rejection if you give someone else the option. But if you're running the show, the chance is going to be 100 percent. Pre rejected. It's not a pre approval for a loan. It's a pre rejection for a relationship. And that pre rejection is 100 percent because you're the one doing it. Really tricky. Now, I'm not saying it's easy because the other thing about rejecting ourselves is we're good at it. We're a little bit kinder, right? We give ourselves a pat on the back. Oh, you're like you're a loser. But like, you do it with compassion towards yourself. Hopefully. When someone else does it, it hurts more. Right. Because we open ourselves up to being accepted and oh, my God, it hurts. So be careful about that. Right. Give other people the chance to accept or reject you, which is the scariest thing. I'm not saying it's easy. It requires a lot of fortitude. And the reason that we don't have the fortitude is because we've been rejected already and now we lack confidence in ourselves. So then the world becomes a dangerous place. And then it's hard to give people the option. You'll get this. So the other problem that we run into when we don't let people reject us is we become manipulative and we create relationships that are doomed to fail. What do I mean by this? So if I don't want to give someone the chance to reject me, what I'm going to do, I'm going to hide something. Right. Oh, yeah, that's not really me. Or I'm not going to share this little tidbit, because if I share this, they could reject me. They may like it. They may not like it. But then what happens is you create a relationship that's based on a lie. And then what happens is now like you've got to cover this thing up and they can never find out. And you're playing this game that if they if I can force them or trick them into investing a lot into the relationship when they eventually find out, there's so much in the relationship already that I'll be able to ride it out. Not a good strategy. Give them the choice to reject you. I know it's hard, but your relationship will actually be healthier. Instead, what's going to happen is you'll build something up for a while and then they're going to feel betrayed. So now there is a possibility of rejection and there is a guarantee of betrayal. So I know it's I know it's hard. But you got to give people the chance to reject you. Because that's where like respect comes from. Got that? It's hard. Yeah, so someone's you miss 100 percent of the shots you don't take. Wayne Gretzky and Michael Scott. Beautiful. I think it's a beautiful quote, but what people don't add is that a missed shot hurts a lot more than a shot not taken. Right. The individual shot that you take when you get rejected hurts more than not taking the shot at all. The problem is that over time, getting rejected 50 times or not taking a shot 100 times, you're going to be worse off if you never take a chance. But in an individual moment to moment, it's harder to take a chance. That's why we don't do it. Right. So like if you kind of think about it, oh, I've never I've never dated anyone and I'm 25 years old. How did we get in this situation? We got in this situation not because you're stupid or anything like that. We got in this situation because every opportunity you had, it would hurt more to take a chance than to not take a chance. And so one year went by, two years went by, three years went by. And now you find yourself having never taken a chance or maybe you took a couple, got rejected. And now the five years and no relationship hurts more than any individual chance. That's the problem. But on any given day, very easy. It's the right move to say not today. It's the right move to say I don't want to take a chance. Don't get too personal. The only real failure is the failure to try. That's beautiful, too. But that's not true. Right. I don't disagree with this person, but like, let's be honest, trying and failing still hurts a fuckton. I'm with you in sentiment. I think that's the right place to end up. Smile and wave. Like, I love these comments because you're right. We should get there. But let's acknowledge that. The try and fail is also a failure and also hurts. And sometimes the weird thing is can hurt even more. Because what hurts more, half-assing it and failing or full-assing it and failing? I gave everything. I gave 100 percent. I gave 110 percent. I gave one year of my life, five years of my life. And to get rejected or fail then hurts way more. And since it hurts way more than half-assing it, we half-ass it. We half-ass it to protect ourselves from the hurt of full-assing it. And the real challenge there is that when we live a life like that, we've shot ourselves in the foot, exactly what was said earlier. It's tricky. So when we're talking about expending effort, the thing to understand is it's the wrong move for the right strategy over time. But on any given day, it's easier to not do things. It's protective to not do things. It's protective to half-ass it. Because then when you fail, you've got some excuse. And if you've got an excuse, you don't have to feel bad about yourself. I tried my hardest and I didn't win. That means that there is a better human being than me on the planet versus I half-assed it. And then if I don't lose, at least I have this refuge in my mind. If I had put forth 100 percent effort, then I could have won. And you can beat yourself up about that, but at least you give 100 percent and lose. To give 100 percent and lose is the worst feeling in the world. Because that's when you really realize you've got good evidence that you're insufficient. It's not enough, even if you gave it your all. Luke is asking, don't you think that there are points where you should weigh your options, though, and not put all your eggs in one basket because then indirectly the rejection will hurt long term? I don't quite follow the question, but the answer is undoubtedly whatever you think. I'm serious. So I don't think it's like all your eggs in one basket. And yeah, I mean, you should be more nuanced about it for sure. It's kind of what I'm reading from the question. Yeah, half-assing is a protection mechanism. Yeah, that's the one that screwed my life so hard for so many years. OK, what happens if I spend my entire life trying and failing? I want to do things, but I know I can't do them as well as other people or even I would like to. Great question. So this question, the answer is in the question itself. What happens if I spend my entire life? So already we've divorced ourselves from reality. We've entered the realm of hypothetical and you've already said my entire life. This is what the mind does. You've got to be careful because you can't spend your whole life trying and failing. I mean, I guess theoretically you could, but that's not the actual situation. Second thing to understand. I don't know if that made sense, but I want to do things, but I know I can't do them. Hold on a second. How do you know that you can't do it? Well, I haven't done it before. I've tried before and I failed. I can't do something is different from I've tried consistently and I failed in the past. Right. So I'm not saying that you can do anything that you put your mind to. I think that's ridiculous. But I think there's some wiggle room between trying your whole life and failing, which is like on the black end of the spectrum and on the white end of the spectrum is you can put anything. You can do anything that you put your mind to. The problem in this scenario is that it's black and white. And I think both of them are wrong. The right question is the next time you try, what can you do to increase your chances of success? That's the question you should be asking. Any question that starts with what if, what if I do this and this happens? You are trying to solve for a problem that literally does not exist. That's what makes it a hypothetical. Focus on the problem that does exist. Solve that one first and then worry about tomorrow, tomorrow. Right. And there's a good reason that our brain thinks about hypotheticals. I'm not saying ignore all hypotheticals. But when it comes to your life, think a little bit about where is the balance of your thinking. Do you spend more time trying to solve the hypothetical problems of tomorrow or more time trying to solve the problems of today? I think the real mistake that a lot of people make is they spend 51 plus percent solving hypothetical problems. Or not even hypothetical problems. The other 40 percent is problems from the past that I can do nothing about. Man, that guy made fun of me in the locker room. I'm going to spend a couple days thinking about what the right comeback would have been. And I'm going to own them if only I had done this. We spent all of our time solving hypothetical problems in the past and rewriting history, retconning our way to pride and confidence instead of solving the problems for today. And I don't say this to make funny. All this, bro, I fucking did this too. I did it for 10 years. That's why I'm saying it. And then one day I was like, you know what? This is dumb. I'm an idiot. Why don't I focus on what I can focus on today? And that's the difference between success and failure for me. Just focus on the problems that you can solve instead of worrying about the ones that you can't. And I'm not saying ignore all those. You absolutely have to think about hypotheticals. But like, you know, what can you do today? What can you do differently? Because that's the only thing you can do. And then when you start focusing on that, it may not work out right away. In fact, it's not going to work out right away. I mean, I was so stupid. I applied. I got rejected from 119 medical schools before I got accepted to one. Right. So I'm not saying that like, oh, if you do this like three times the fourth time, you will succeed. No, I'm telling you like you're going to get rejected a fuck ton. Like that's what's going to happen. I tried to date so many people. Catastrophic failure after catastrophic failure. It took a couple of years. 120, not 190. 119. Right. So it's not it's not close to 200. But it's like that's that's what life is. And we get so caught up about like what does work or what doesn't work or will it work or will it not work? And like this is what I don't know. Something's going on. Something weird is going on in our brains with like technology and how it's affecting the way that we see things. And, you know, I don't know. It's weird. It's like this is a problem that everyone faces nowadays. And I don't know why. Like I used to be the minority. You'll get that. This kind of problem that I had, which is has become every day for people. That's why the world is so hard. Like something has become fundamentally harder. I used to be the outlier. Now it's the norm. So just take the plunge and adapt on the fly. It's a great place to start. Right. But even then, like the attitude, the plunge, why are you using why you saying just give it a shot? Right. Think about it a little bit and then give it a shot. That's what I would say. And then iterate. Same thing. But you'll see the attitude difference. Just take the plunge and adapt on the fly. If that's the way you need to conceptualize it, go for it. Another way to think about it is think about it a little bit and figure out what you're going to do within the next hour and give that a shot and learn from it. Same thing. So keep going full speed like David Goggins. If you're David Goggins, go for it. Right. So I know David Goggins. So I'm going to say keep going, but take breaks and you can reduce your speed from time to time. Give it 100 percent when you can. But if you can't, don't stop. That's the only thing. Take a break. Fine. But don't stop. And then if you guys are if you all are as miraculous as David Goggins, then by all means, if you could go full speed ahead 100 percent of the time, I think it's great. Go for it. OK, so Boopi the Fox is asking you, how does one ease themselves of the anxiety of just trying? This is another problem that has started to happen in our society. We try to ease ourselves of negative emotions. The real answer, if you really want to conquer, just do it. It's that you have to accept that anxiety is going to happen. So I want you all to think about this. Everyone nowadays, and this is happening increasingly more and more and more. We are outsourcing the control of our negative emotions to the external environment. So we are saying things like this thing, this thing that this person said hurts my feelings. Therefore, they need to stop. And this can include everything from hate speech, which I think is pretty reasonable, to this person lost weight and looks better than I do and showed up in a room. And showed up to my party and is upstaging me in front of my friends. Therefore, they need to be uglier. So reasonable things and unreasonable things, in my opinion. But the one thing that's certainly happening is that we are outsourcing the responsibility of our emotional state to other people. In the worst cases, we also do this in psychiatry, where we will sometimes medicate problems away. We're not going to fix this. We're going to numb it. Which can sometimes be useful, by the way, because you can't fix everything all the time. Sometimes the body and brain need numbness to get through a couple cycles of rotation of the earth so that you have enough energy to actually fix a problem. But I think the real answer, if you really want to control your life, just be able to accept negativity. Don't ease the anxiety. The anxiety is there. It's going to be there. It doesn't have to control me. What is anxiety? It's worry. It's uncomfortable up here. It's uncomfortable in here. Sometimes it can be dangerous, but almost never. There are cases where anxiety can be life-threatening. But usually it's just discomfort. And so imagine what your life is like. What would your life be like? Everyone's talking about how do I fix my anxiety? What would your life be like if you didn't need to fix it? If you could act in spite of your anxiety. So that, I think, is the real... If you guys want like a magic bullet to transform your life, that's it. It's the ability to embrace or at least not run away from negative emotional experiences. If you can do that, everything changes. Okay. You started talking about the six neurological deficits in addicted people, but only covered one of them. What are the other five? What a great question. I will do a lecture on that. Working on it, actually. But let me see if I can pull something for you all in the short term. Let's see. I think this is the one. Okay. So, let's see. So, let's see. So, let's see. So, let's see. So, let's see. So, let's see. I think this is the one. Ugh. Hold on. Chat. Yeah. Okay. Let me see if I got this. Okay. Hold on. I don't know if this has it 100%, but we'll give it a shot. All right. So, this is mindfulness training for substance use disorder clinical staff at McLean Hospital. Is this the right one? Okay. So, this doesn't have it 100%, but this is sort of an answer, and I'll give you all a better answer, okay? So, there's a couple of different, these are the deficits here on the outside. So, the first thing that we talked about is increases awareness of internal state and cravings. So, the problem with a lot of people who have addictions is that they don't know when they're craving something. The craving is there and builds and builds and builds, but you're blind to it. And since you're not aware of your craving until it becomes overwhelming, that's when you crack. Because if you realize that the craving is developing, then you can actually like get rid of it while it's small. Okay? So, a lack of awareness of your internal emotional state. Second problem that people have is the ability for them to regulate their negative emotions once they arise. So, we know that people with addictions have a reduced cortical inhibition of the limbic system. So, the limbic system is where we experience emotions, the amygdala, the hippocampus partially. And we know that our frontal lobes normally regulate that, right? So, when I'm feeling emotional, let's say I get angry, there's a part of my brain that's like, Okay, calm down, control yourself in this moment. That control, that ability to control yourself by yourself, what is the you and what is the yourself? What does it mean when you control yourself? That means that your frontal lobes, their capacity to control your limbic system. Okay? That's a second deficit. Second thing is that the ability to tolerate negativity is worse in people with addictions. So, when I feel bad, do I need to fix the problem? And what we find in people with addictions is that their ability to tolerate feeling bad is worse than someone who's not suffering from an addiction. Now, this doesn't mean that they're weak because we also know that the negative experience that they have is objectively worse than someone without an addiction. So, for example, people who are vulnerable to addictions literally feel more pain than someone who doesn't. And their ability to tolerate pain is lower. So, we have to learn how to tolerate pain, suppress emotions, control emotions, become internally aware of cravings. And then there's also just basic executive function, which is the ability to set your mind to something and execute on it. So, reduced empathy is another one, and I'm blanking on number six. So, I will give you all a better answer. I just need to revisit some of that research. Actually, give me a second. Let me see if I have. Oh, here we go. Oh, boy. Yeah. Yeah, I'll put something better. I'll put something together that is better. That's the closest thing I've got right now. Omar is saying, first time seeing Dr. K Live. Welcome, my friend. Can we see this resource in our Discord resources? Bro, that's a poster I put together when I was at McLean Hospital five years ago. I don't know that it's worth seeing, but I will give you this for sure. So, if somebody wants to... If you guys want a better resource than this, there's actually a great post on our subreddit recently that they're like, Dr. K, you talk about all the signs, but you never cite sources, which you are right. I do not. It's just there's a procedural problem we have, which we're trying to fix, and thank you for reminding us that we need to do that. But here's references if anybody wants to take a screenshot. This is an awesome paper, by the way. So, Retraining the Brain, a Review of Hypothesized Neurobiological Mechanisms is great. Where is... These... Sorry. Oh, shit. These are the two references that you all should check out. I mean, this one's pretty good, too. But it's not... These are the two that are good. Okay? So, to the person, if you're here and you're watching, there's my references for what I just said. They're always at my fingertips. It's just... We've got to get to them. We've got to get to them. Any tips for embracing negative emotions? What a great question. What do you think about this? All right. So, everyone's talking about embracing your negative emotions or sitting with your negative emotions. What the hell does that mean? What does it mean to sit with or embrace your negative emotions? So, I know it sounds kind of crazy, but that's exactly what it means. So, here's the problem. When we experience emotions, we tend to deal with them. Okay? So, there's an interesting study that showed that emotion-focused coping results in poor outcomes in life. Okay? And I will pull up a reference at the end because I know where this paper is. So, what does that mean? That means that when I have... When I feel bad, if I cope by making myself feel better, I will actually do worse in life. So, let's say I feel bad. I feel anxious. Let me have a beer to calm myself down. I feel sad. Let me play a video game to cheer myself up. So, if the focus of my coping is to alter my internal emotional state, I'm feeling angry and frustrated with my life, let me go yell at my younger sister to make myself feel better. Or y'all may have parents who did this, and you may have noticed that when your parent is having a bad day, the way that they make themselves feel better is by making your day worse. This is called emotion-focused coping. And what it means is literally acting in some kind of way that makes the emotion feel better. To embrace or sit with the emotion. The tip is, first of all, to do absolutely nothing. What you are doing is not doing anything. Take no action. None. And literally what you can do is sit. Go and find a nice place to sit and sit down and close your eyes and let whatever is there just be there. You may find that when you do this, whatever the emotion is intensifies. Let it come. Tears can start to come. You can start to feel very angry. Your breathing will change. And you are just going to sit. The only thing you are going to do is nothing. This is something that y'all should be fucking experts at by now. Right? This is our audience. This isn't the normal people who are out there winning Nobel prizes. This is us. We are good at doing nothing. Don't distract yourself. Just sit and do nothing. Now here is the beautiful thing. Our brain has this capacity for something called homeostasis, which means that no emotions last forever. Literally. Right? My favorite example of this is happiness from a wedding day. I have seen so many people start divorce proceedings based on what happened on their wedding day. Because they want the perfect marriage. And the perfect... they want... forget it. Sorry. Not the perfect marriage. What they want is the perfect wedding day. And they think if I have a perfect wedding day, then I will have a perfect marriage. And since I have less than a perfect wedding day, I will have an imperfect marriage. But here is the problem with a wedding day. The happiness from it does not last forever. Because our mind comes to homeostasis. This is why we play video games and eat cookies every day. Because the happiness of the cookie doesn't last forever. It goes away. So here is the cool thing. Negative emotions go away too. Now you may say, but Dr. K, hold on a second. When I sit down and I start... I sit with my negative emotions, things get worse. My mind starts looping. The anxiety intensifies. So now we get to an advanced technique for sitting with your emotions. Which is that mental engagement is an action. This is something that Western science is just on the cusp of. But yogis figured out a long time ago. To sit with an emotion is not to engage with it. And this is what I mean. So if you sit with a negative emotion, you will notice that your mind wants to circle jerk you into a bad place. This means this, and this means this. I'm feeling sad I got rejected today. This means I'm going to be rejected forever. These people don't like me. These people don't like me. These people don't like me. These people don't like me. That is not sitting with the emotion. That is actually an action of thought. It is a mental action. And if you circle jerk your way into thinking in this line, observe your thoughts. And notice how much your mind wants to engage with it. It wants to think about what next, what next, what next, what next. And with each of those thoughts comes a strengthening of the emotion. And then we're left with no choice but to use emotion-focused coping. We have to break the cycle. So notice, don't think, just feel. Feel, feel, feel, feel, feel. Do not think. If thoughts come, let them come and let them go. But don't engage with them. Don't follow them. Don't challenge them. Don't encourage them. Don't do any of that stuff. And that's why we use the body. So the second thing to understand, third thing, whatever number we're on, about how to sit with your emotions, is literally sit with them. Watch them. Let them be there. Oh, feel what you feel in your body. Use your body as a grounding technique to get away from your mind. If you want to breathe, you can do that. But just feel, okay, where is the sadness in my body? Ask yourself this one question. Where is this emotion in my body? Where do I feel it? Whatever you feel, you can move in slightly the opposite direction. If you feel tension in your shoulders, let your shoulders relax. If you're breathing shallowly, let the breathing be deeper. If you're hunched over, expand. And this is how you start sitting with your emotions. And then something beautiful will happen. It's going to be completely OP. It sucks for a while, and then it starts to get better. And then you haven't done anything, but it's gotten better on its own. And now here's the problem. The problem with emotions is that when we feel bad, what we do to fix it screws us even more. So when I'm feeling sad about my day, let me binge watch something. And now not only do I lose one hour to sadness, I lose five hours to watching something. And now six hours have gone by, and this sadness instead of costing me one hour is costing me six hours. This is why we get stuck in life. Because the things that we do to solve our problems create more problems. In the East, they called this the cycle of karma, that no matter what you do, you get bound further. Any problem that you try to fix creates more problems. And so the beautiful thing is that the yogis of ancient India, they were us, one of us. And they said, do nothing. They're so degenerate. They're like, do nothing. But the thing is, why doesn't that work for us? Because they figured out that doing nothing means doing nothing up here as well. You need to be empty-headed. You need to be low MMR. Go back to the bronze tier. Embrace the bronze tier up here. Stop being this 4chan amateur quantum physicist genius and be stupid. Do nothing. Delay. This will be the thing that sets you free. Oh, yeah. I think I've unlocked a new ability by doing nothing. I'm going to tell you all a story. The most important lesson that I learned in medical school was do nothing. There are just as many problems that we have in medicine by doing too much as doing too little. Even more. Because the problem with medicine is that most of our treatments screw something up in some way. So the real job of a doctor, the real reason that algorithms may not be ideal is because you want to do the minimum amount of whatever you can do. Because fundamentally, any kind of medicine that we practice in the West is going to be worse off than your body. So any basic thing like our ability to control your blood pressure is not nearly as sophisticated as your body's ability to control blood pressure. Hell, think about this for a second. A lot of human beings will go the first 60 years of their life without a doctor touching their blood pressure and everything just works. This is how beautiful the body is. So when I was on my surgery rotation, I was thinking about being a surgeon for a little while. Five percent chance. So one of my one of the fellows, the vascular surgery fellows, brilliant, told me that the first 10 years of being a surgeon, this was the attending, I think. First 10 years of surgery, you learn when to operate and the rest of your life is spent learning when not to operate, how not to operate and that as a surgeon, the worst thing that you can do for a patient is to operate. So you should only do it when you absolutely need to, because cutting someone open, which we don't even do so much in surgery anymore, is generally speaking, not a good idea. So to do nothing is one of the most understated skills. It's the whole Zen tradition is based on this. And if we sort of think about all the problems in our life, where do the problems come from? They come from doing something, not doing nothing. People say, oh, Dr. K, what are you talking about? I do nothing for the last five years. I've been doing nothing. Bullshit. You've been doing a lot of empty something that is not doing nothing. Sitting on your ass and playing video games is not doing nothing. It is doing an empty something. So we fill up our days with empty somethings rather than do nothing. For those of you that say that you've done nothing, I challenge you to actually do nothing. You won't be able to. We had a brilliant exercise we did in our community a couple of years ago. Stare at a wall for an hour. That's it. One of the most transformative things for like 5% of our community. People started crying. People felt really uncomfortable. People had catharsis. People went insane. Just stare at a wall for one hour. No distractions. Just let your mind run wild. One of the most powerful things you can do. When I do nothing, I start launching into daydreams. You're damn right you do. But let's understand this even better. You don't launch into daydreams. Your mind starts daydreaming. Why? Because your mind doesn't know how to tolerate nothing. So remember when we talked about emotion-focused coping? And how people who try to control when their coping strategy is to alter their internal emotional state. These people do poorly in life. So there is one beautiful way to alter your internal emotional state that requires nothing externally, which is to daydream. Because when I daydream, I'm exploring the universe. I'm living a beautiful life. So don't engage with those thoughts. Stare at the wall. Let the daydream go. It'll take practice. It'll be hard. If you're someone who's got maladaptive daydreaming, it's going to be tough. It's going to be an uphill battle for you. But same thing. Daydreaming is emotion-focused coping. Like literally, we've got papers about this. Now, since we're working on references, let me pull those up real quick. I said I have two references to show you, all right? Let's pull them up. Give me a second. So this one is... Oh, shit. I have to find it, chat. Hold on. No, I want all of them. Yes, open 18 tabs. Don't think it's this one. Yes. Hold on, chat. Don't leave. Hold on. Hold on. Emotion... Damn it. I'm not able to find it. Can't find this paper. Okay, I'll find it and show it to you all. What was the other one? Oh, no, no, here it is. Ha ha. Shit. Can you all read this? Development of maladaptive coping, a functional adaptation to chronic, uncontrollable stress. Okay, this is the reference. So it is Mary E. Wadsworth, hold on. Ha, locked out. Printed a paper, chat. Oh, shit. Okay, here's the paper. This is the one. Okay, I just don't know if it's in the public domain. I don't know if it's in the public domain. I don't know if it's in the public domain. Okay, here's the paper. This is the one. Okay, I just don't know if it's in the public domain or I have to use my login. But the origins of maladaptive coping. Let me see. Okay. So moreover, while avoidance generally predicts poor functioning... Yeah, this is the page that it's on. This is the paper that talks about healthy and unhealthy coping skills. So there's one reference. What was the other reference that we wanted? No way you read all of that? That's funny, chat. That's very funny. I read like two... Yeah, printers are still... So that's the thing. So I used to read things online and once I crossed like 150 pages a week, I started printing some stuff out. So I'll read like... I print out about 30% of papers that I read. And I'll print like 50 pages a week. Why not take a picture with the iPad and screen share? Yeah, we could do that. But I wanted to show you all one other reference. Oh, Daydreaming. Perfect. Well, you guys know we did a whole video about Daydreaming. Shit, where is that? We should add that. There's stuff about maladaptive daydreaming. And then we're going to wrap for the day. How come you print them? Because it's easier to read. So there's also something else that you all should be a little bit aware of. So a growing number of ophthalmologists that I know are getting concerned about these oil glands in the eyes that will essentially die out because people are not blinking often enough. So when you play video games or look at a screen, the rate of your blinking actually goes down. And if you don't blink enough, your eyes will dry out. And the consequence of your eyes drying out is actually that there's these little oil producing glands in your eyes that will actually stop functioning. And so there's a growing number of people who like require eye drops and stuff and external lubricants because this is happening. It all has to do with your blinking rate. So I try to minimize my screen time even when it comes to things like reading. So we don't know a whole lot of data on what really causes this or how bad it is. I don't know that, but these are friends of mine who are ophthalmologists. When I talk to them about, hey, I'm working on video game addiction, these are friends from med school. You see them after 10 years and you're like, hey, what are you up to nowadays? And I'll be like, oh, I'm doing this stuff on video game addiction. And they're like, oh, I've seen this problem recently. I've heard it from two or three people. So blink chat when you play games. Dr. K, I think we need a Discord tutorial for the HG community. The server is huge. You are right. We've also heard that from our Discord people. So we have a lot of Discord leads that were telling us that we need to like orient you all to our Discord. Because there's the dude, the Discord is epic. Like, it's so good. There's like people who do fitness stuff. So one of the fitness leads, I was talking to a couple of the fitness leads. And one of the fitness leads was like, I was like, how do you, you know, what kind of workout stuff do you do? And he's like, honestly, it's mostly mental. And he's like, most of what I do is like encourage people and help them feel good about themselves so that they can start working out. And I was like, holy shit, dude, that's so epic. See, we don't understand this, but I have a hot take. You guys want a hot take about medicine? Half the diseases that we have are mental in nature. Obesity, diabetes. These things have a huge mental component. And if we can change people's behavior, we can fix those things. So we have like type two diabetes, for example, is like quite fixable for many people with behavioral change. And where does behavioral change happen? It starts in the mind. The problem is that we have an industry that does not reward helping people become healthy. So we don't do that. Who can blink manually while doing anything? I don't know. Can you blink manually? It's hard. That's not a hot take. OK. All right, y'all. So we've been streaming for three hours and 15 minutes. I missed y'all. That's why I stayed so long. But I have stuff to write and talk about. I have stuff to write and things to do. And I have a lot of stuff that I need to get working on. And I encourage y'all to work. I'm going to be working all weekend. I think y'all should too. Don't procrastinate. Work hard, chat. Do your nothing very mindfully. And then when time comes, get your asses up and do some work. So Venti is saying, I'm morbidly obese. I'm only myself to blame. I respectfully disagree. So if y'all took one thing away from Slicker's talk today, recognize that if you suck at something in life, you're not the only one to blame. This is very important to understand. Because most of what we do, especially if you look at something like obesity, seriously, it's not your fault. It's your responsibility. Who eats healthy? People who are taught to eat healthy. That's it. Right? And you can teach yourself. Question number two. What's way easier? Someone else teaching you something or teaching yourself? Cut yourself some slack. Recognize that 90% of your food behaviors are based on the upbringing that you had. This is what became habitual for you. This is the way that your neurons were wired. This is the way that you're conditioned. So it's an uphill battle and you can change it. The problem is a medical industry. We don't support you in that. That's not our first choice. Right? What's our first choice nowadays? Ozempic. Because it works well. And hey, you don't have to do anything up here. You can just take Ozempic. Not brought to you or sponsored by Ozempic. It's just, I've heard really good things about the medication. I don't do weight management or anything like that. Right? Cut yourself a little bit of slack and recognize that here as a community, we are here to support you. And that just starts with an awareness. It starts with a little bit of self-forgiveness. And then it also starts with what are you going to do today? Right? So if you're morbidly obese and you're listening to this, what are you going to do today? You don't have to fix everything. Oh my God, I'm not going to be able to eat like this for the rest of my life. Don't eat like this for the rest. Just today. Do something today. And then tomorrow, do something today. And then tomorrow, do something today. But it's never going to change. It's always going to be do a little bit today. A little bit. Tiny bit. Okay? That's what I'm saying. It's like a lot of people like Slicker was like, oh my God, like you're so good and I'm so bad. No, dude. It's just I was given the right kind of guidance. That's the difference. You all realize how lucky I am? That's the only difference. It's luck. So he calls it Allah. I call it karma. Call it whatever you want to. RNG. We're all different. We're given a different hand of cards and it's just about the way that you play them. And you have to play the hand of cards you're dealt. There's no use worrying about what other people have in their hand. Apple a day is delish because it's the season. Will an apple a day keep the Dr. K away? Probably. How to start things you have been procrastinating for months and have almost given up on. We have a great video about multiple kinds of procrastination. We also have so that's on YouTube. Let me see if I can find it. Hold on. There's oh shit. There's a new video on YouTube. I watch your videos, but nothing changes. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I watch your videos, but nothing changes. That's great, dude. Oh my God. That's so epic. Man, I love it when people post stuff on the subreddit about like, hey, this is like what's going on. By the way, I read a lot of stuff on the subreddit. OK, it's like a lot of inspiration for video. So if you'll ask questions on there, it's very helpful. If you're like, hey, here's my situation. And if you give some detail, like I'm not saying I can respond to all of them, right, because we make at most three videos a week. But I read all of it. Not all of it. Actually, that's not true. I read a lot of it and I try my best to like file everything away. And I've got like all these different ideas. I'll read papers and I'll be like, OK, like this is paper is interesting. But then if I've got a case or something, it really helps a lot. So thank you all very much for participating in that way. And hold on. So I would start with this. Oh, yeah. OK, this is great. How to stop procrastinating four years ago. OK, apparently I said something four years ago. About it. How to stop procrastinating and finish projects two years ago. Yeah. So mental health boot camp is the one that I would recommend, even though it has the fewest views and is the most scuffed. But apparently I said something pretty damn good four years ago about it. I don't know. I don't remember what I said, but I said it back then. So check it out. Is that a re-upload? No, I don't think so. There are different lengths, but I think the boot camp is the best. But it's like longer, which a lot of people don't have that, you know, because you got procrastinating. You can't watch a 50 minute video on procrastination. What is the best way to join the community? Join Discord. Thank you so much, Crow. Much appreciated, my friend. I meant to watch that video on procrastination 40 years ago, but I haven't gotten to it. That's why we made a five minute one. So literally, we're here. We're holding your hand no matter what you're doing. We're here for you. And if a 50 minute video is too much to watch, watch the one that's five minutes and 47 seconds. Do you have something on repression? Not so much, but maybe we'll make something. I'm going to make a video on that. I'm going to make a video on that. I'm going to make a video on that. Do you have something on repression? Not so much, but maybe we'll make something. Okay, y'all take care. I'm going to head out. Otherwise, my voice is going to be shot and then I won't be able to work tomorrow. So for those of you all that celebrate Thanksgiving, happy Thanksgiving. For those of you all that don't celebrate Thanksgiving, happy Friday and happy weekend. And thank you all very much for coming today. By the way, thank you very much for being respectful to Slicker. I really appreciate it. We heard firsthand from the dude about how he is not the best human being on the planet. And also that's okay. Right. That's what we're here for. We're here for all of y'all that are not the best human being on the planet. We're here for all of y'all that have screwed up in some way and want to do better. That's who we're committed to. So thank you very much for coming today. Thank you very much for being here. If y'all, you know, yeah, that's it. I got nothing else.