 Mm hmm, xenCome home with me. I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Alrighty chat, let's get started. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is All Up Kanoja. Just a reminder that although I am a psychiatrist, nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Streaming is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If you all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. So hello and welcome to an evening Healthy Gamer GG stream. A couple of quick announcements before we get to talking about our guest today. So the first thing is we're going to be over at the Streamies this weekend. So we recently discovered that we were nominated for a Streamy in the health and wellness category. And we're grateful to everyone who thinks that we're doing something good on the internet. We are here to try to do good things on the internet. And we are grateful to everyone who has helped us make this possible. The nomination is an honor enough. I looked at other people in the category. I really don't think that we are the best health and wellness streamer out there. There are just some amazing content creators out there. And it's an honor to just be in that same category. At the same time, you know, we'll see what happens with that. And it's awesome to be considered. So before we jump into our interview, which should be starting in just a minute or two. First of all, I'd like to remind you all a little bit about why we do what we do. So we're here to talk to people about their experiences of life. And sometimes the people that we talk to are more sympathetic or less sympathetic. And that's okay. So one of the key things that I've learned as a psychiatrist is that communication and dialogue is really, really important for facilitating growth and change in anyone's life. And that's what we're really here to do. We've talked to and had conversations with people who have been convicted of crimes. We've talked to people who are very politically oriented. We've talked to people who are parts of minority communities. We've talked to people who are parts of majority communities. We are here to have conversations. And the reason I think that's important is because once again, based primarily on my clinical experience, but also like, you know, years of studying to become a monk, one of the biggest things that I realized is we're all human. And one of the things that I choose to believe, which probably is going to be wrong at some point, is that generally speaking as humans, the more we understand each other's perspectives and the more that we try to have compassion towards one another, the better off in general we're going to be. Now, I'm sure that at some point I will meet someone or have a conversation with someone that disproves that. And then I will eat my words. But up until that point, that day hasn't come yet. I'm sure it'll come at some point. And so the main thing that I ask of y'all is to remember a couple of things. The first is that coming on stream isn't necessarily easy. Like a lot of times it's fun and easy, but not necessarily. People come on here because they want to come on here. Generally speaking, people come on here to try to help other people. That is the number one reason why people come onto this stream. By sharing their experience of life, we hope to learn something about them and we hope to also learn something about ourselves. That's what we're about. And irrespective of who we talk to, I think that that still remains true. So I really ask y'all to try to treat all of our guests with respect and compassion. It doesn't mean that you don't have to like what they say. You're allowed to disagree. You're allowed to form judgments. That's actually okay. But we ask y'all to try to remember that coming on here is not necessarily easy and that people choose to do this. And that we're grateful to every single guest that we've had on stream for helping us understand a little bit more about what it means to be human. And I don't consider this interview to be any different. Any questions about that? Okay. Let's hop into the interview. Alrighty. Ummm... Let's do Discord. Oh, oh, oh! Here we go. What's up, dude? Hey, hey, what's up, Doctor? Give me one second to try to configure this. I'm a little bit, I'm a tiny bit of a boomer. So you gotta bear with me for one second, my dude. All good, I got you. If you need help with settings and stuff, I can help you. Oh, hey, it works. Miraculous. Hello. How you doing? I'm doing well, man. How are you? I'm good, I'm good, man. I honestly, I saw, why honestly am I even gonna be fake about it? I haven't seen anything that you've done or anything, but my moderators are telling me they're gonna plant this for me. So I don't really know what we're doing today, but they just said it's gonna be good. Okay. So, to be completely, that's, first of all, dude, I love your honesty, man. I'm super hyped about this. So let me just explain a couple of things. First of all, what do you go by? Aiden. You can just call me Aiden. Aiden, okay. So let me explain to you a little bit about what we usually do. I'm super excited. I similarly, I know that sounds kind of weird. I've seen very little of your stuff. I know you have a reputation on the internet. I'm not even sure exactly what it is, but I try very hard not to watch people's content just because anytime I have a conversation with them, I don't want to be biased by a character on the screen. About the H.T. Yeah. So let me explain to you what we do. I'm a psychiatrist, but one thing that it's important for you to understand is that this is not therapy. So I'm not going to be diagnosing you, treating you, prescribing you any medications. Is that clear? Yes, sir. So what I try to do with people, I started streaming to have conversations with people just to understand a little bit about what their life is like. That's basically it. Sometimes we'll talk about stuff, which is totally cool. Like sometimes we can talk about particular topics that may be interesting to you or interesting to me. Generally speaking, we're here because I believe that the internet is a judgmental space and that having a conversation with a human being can help us learn more about each other and learn more about ourselves. Sometimes and I'm happy to go into more of my background if you want, people have questions about something related to science, health or mental health. And while I don't provide medical advice, like for example, I think you have Crohn's disease and you should start on a biologic agent. I won't do that. I'm happy to guide people based on my varied experience and the kind of work that I've done if people are interested in learning about things. And that's reciprocal. So if you want to teach me about stuff too, and it's kind of where the conversation goes, like that's totally fine. Okay. How does that sound? Yeah, it sounds great, man. It sounds great. Everything you're saying is it's perfect. It's music to my ears. You know what I'm saying? Awesome, dude. So can you tell me a little bit about yourself? Yeah, my name is Aiden. I a lot of people that don't know me, they call me Aiden Ross. You know what I'm saying? But I mean, that is my name, but I like to be called Aiden. I'm a streamer. I've been streaming for a few years now. I've been streaming for, I would say honestly, four years coming up on five. You know what I'm saying? Let's see. I enjoy streaming. I used to enjoy it way more when my hunger was more, you know what I'm saying? When I was more hungry. Okay. I've really kind of not beat the streaming game, but kind of like accomplished what my goals that I set beforehand. So now it's harder for me to kind of make and appreciate streaming more sometimes. But lately I've been doing some new stuff. Like I've been switching it up and I've actually been enjoying it lately as of like this month particularly. So, you know, it's been really good. Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about why? How'd you become a streamer, man? So I've always kind of like played video games and throughout my whole life, like everyone I used to like kind of be buddies with back in the day when I used to play like games. Like I used to play my first game I ever streamed was NBA 2K14, but I had like no viewers, but I just streamed it because, which is like when I was 13 years old, I would just stream it because like I was 13, like literally just cursing and just playing and stuff like that and just kind of like making content. My boy was like, you'd actually be like a really good streamer. And I would like see other streamers that I would watch and I'm like, all right, you know, I'm gonna get ahead of the game. And I did it and I just, I have ADHD, man. I just move a lot. I just, my mind is just not normal. I feel like sometimes and I don't know. I just, I just really, really like got into it from having like passion for NBA 2K and then just talking a lot and while I'm playing stuff and entertaining. Okay. So it sounds like you liked NBA 2K a lot. So you started streaming when you were like 13? Yeah, but I got no viewers and I quit for like a three, four years. And then I started up again, like when I was like 17, 18 ish. So if you've been streaming for four or five years, that means you're like 22, 23? I'm 22. Yeah, I'm gonna be 23 in October. Okay. And so what second time around, what kind of got you into it? Second time around, I was a senior in high school and I like knew that like, I didn't want to go to college, man. Like I had, I had family members like telling me like, you're going to be homeless. You're going to be like, if you don't go to college, like, can you don't become a lawyer and like they want to become like a lawyer or like something that like, something that was like suit and tie, super professional, classy. And I just knew it wasn't for me. Like I was just always different. I was always like super to myself in school. I just never really wanted to do what everyone wanted me to do. I always wanted to go like around them. Like I always want to do the opposite. Like if you like if a human being in my life that wasn't my father, my mother told me to do something, I just want to do the opposite of it. Just be like, haha. Like I, I, I, I, you told me that shit and I, and I did the opposite just because I could do it. Okay. Wow. Yeah. It sounds like you, you really like had a lot of, it sounds like family members were almost like trying to scare you into going to college. I got a lot of pressure because I, I, I came from, I come from a fan, from a family that nobody ever went to school. Like the only people that have been through, I have sisters, the only person that was in was like my one aunt and then my mom, like my dad didn't even go to college. Like it's like nobody in my, my whole family went to, went to college. Like nobody. If they never went to college, why would they pressure you so much into going to college? Because at the point of my life, when I was a senior about to like make what I wanted to do, we weren't really financially stable. There was a lot of problems in my home. So like they were just like, well, if you go to college, you'll have a good head on your shoulders and stuff. And I think it'll be different because it would be switching up like the family tradition type of thing, type of thing, you know? Wow. So it sounds like things were a little bit rough and, and they, sounds like they, they were recommending stuff based on what they thought was good for you. My senior year, it was really hard for my family. I was, I was super skinny. I didn't eat every night. People think that like I had it very easy my whole life. We were financially stable, medium class up until about senior year. It got really hard for us. And you know, it's, I would go literally some nights without eating dinner. Like I would just have like a bag of chips for dinner and stuff. Why is that? Because there was a point in time where something happened where everyone in like in my family, my mom didn't work. She was, she was, she does yoga and stuff. Like she's like an instructor now. She does like yoga for fun. Wow. I retired my mom like a couple of years ago, but she just does yoga instruct me for fun. I'm sorry. What does that mean? You retired your mom a couple of years ago? Like she would work with like mentally disabled people and like help them out. Like people with like autism and like down syndrome and bipolar. She would like help them and stuff. And like, not a nurse, but kind of just like somebody who would just like be really like an aid basically. Yeah. So I retired my mom from doing that and she just does yoga for fun because it's like, she's like very into namaste, like peaceful stuff and stuff. So she's super at peace and spiritual. What I mean by retiring here is I just basically like was like, hey mom, dad, you guys never have to worry about money ever again. Like you guys are good. I got them a house. I paid it off. Everything got them cars. So that's, that's what I mean by retiring. Yeah. That's impressive, man. Yeah. That's the best feeling I've ever, out of everything I've ever done in my career, out of anything I've ever spent, that's the best thing I think anyone could ever say, especially me. Like that, like any, anybody that's in a position like I am, I pray that you guys all get in this position where you can retire your parents. The best thing in the world is nothing, nothing like it. Sounds like you're a good son, Aiden. I try to be. I try to be. Maybe if we, if we get to know each other a little bit better, we can hear about some of your less good things that you do from as being a son. But yeah. So, wow. So, so that sounds like you're, you were kind of very self-driven. Can you help me understand a little bit about this kind of like, if someone tells you that you shouldn't do something, you kind of like, you're like, screw you. I'm gonna do it anyway. Well, my mind has always been different. Like I tell you, when I was like four years old, five years old, I've always grew up different. When I was five or six in first grade, I was wearing pull-ups though. I was wearing diapers because I was, I was a late bloomer to where I was peeing and wetting the bed until I was like six or seven years old. And I've always seemed to be rebellious. And I've always seemed to be doing things that like, it, late and just what other kids weren't doing. I would have weird tics growing up. I was just super like, I wouldn't say I was like socially awkward. I was very social. I made a lot of friends. I moved around a lot. I moved, I've had like four different, I moved to like four different towns, kind of three different towns and making new friends. I've always been very social. I've always fit in with people and stuff. I've never had a hard time doing that, but I would just say growing up, listening to people, I was very, I just, I was, I guess you could say rebellious in a way, not in a bad way, just in a way of somebody was like, Hey Aiden, do that and this, I would do it my own way. Like, I'd like to just figure it out on my own. Like for example, I had to learn this a lot, but I've had many things in my life where I've messed up, where people are like, Aiden, like, don't do this. Like, Aiden, don't jump on the table, for example, but I would have to do it to learn the consequence. I would just like to see what would happen. I would, I would want to see it. There's people in life that can catch it. And like, if like, for example, doctor, if you were like, Aiden, if you jump on the table, you're going to get hurt. I think those people that can actually just listen and just not do it. Those are lucky people. There's a lot of people that are that, that, that genuinely like, they have to actually go through it, figure it out from themselves. And I was one of those kids that just like wanted to just know what it was like. So I'm sort of hearing that not necessarily that you were like rebellious, but that you to learn things from yourselves for yourself. Yeah. But again, like, I just think it's not fair. I get it. I get why, but I just think it's not fair for family members, anybody to be pressuring their children to be doing something like I think college is extremely outdated. For example, I'm not bashing college. I think college is necessary for a lot of people. I think if you know what you want to do, if I am, if I know I want, what I'm passionate about, if I want to be a lawyer, a doctor, if I want to do something, I think college is worth it for me. If I know what I'm doing, if I think of people are going into college without any train of thought, what they want to do, like any, like for example, if I'm like, I want a career in business, go to college or business. If you, if you don't know what it is yet, just go to college or business. You know, you want to major in business, but if you don't know what you want to do, what's the point? That's my opinion. I'd recommend try finding a way to make money, stack up, you know what I mean? I just think being pressured and forced into doing that, and that's what I had my senior year. Like I was already being told by my family members, you need to be an accountant. You know what I mean? You need to be an accountant. You need to be a lawyer. You know what I mean? I'm like, I don't even know what I want to do. It's my life, you know? And I'm at an age where I just want to know, I'm at an age where I just want to, I want to figure it out my own. When I was 18, I just wanted to figure it out my own. Yeah. And so what's it like to be under that pressure? I think I felt a lot of pressure because at this point, my sisters weren't really doing anything. No offense to them. I love them. They're doing their own things now. But I just think I was really going through it because I feel like everything was crumbling in my family. Nobody was really, you know what I'm saying, doing anything. That's scary, man. Yeah. And I just felt like I was in a way the golden child. I had to resurrect and help my parents out and find a way. So I had just, yeah. So I'm almost hearing that the pressure you were under was not just about your own life. It's sort of like they were putting all their eggs in your basket. Yeah, I would say so. I would say I was kind of like, I felt pressure from everybody because I had to succeed. And if I didn't succeed, then I was going to feel like a failure probably. Like, I don't know. And honestly, I still have this pressure to this day. I know we're going to get into that later, but the pressure, it's never went away. I've had it ever since I was a senior. What do you mean we're going to get into that later? Help me understand that? We're starting, we're talking right now about like before all this, which is good. And I want to stand this for a little bit. If you have any more topics or questions to talk about, because I'm saying I still have this pressure to this day. OK. Of basically like carrying my family tree, if that makes sense. It's weird. I'll get into it. I don't mean in any type of egotistical way or anything like that, but. I'm not getting any ego from you. OK. You want to talk about it now? No, I'm saying like, was there enough? Because I know we're talking about like the beginning, like before all this. Like, do you want to skip right into that? I don't care. I don't care what we do. I mean, I have like a thousand questions for you, but sure, maybe we can get into a little bit later. OK. So you mentioned that you were hung. So you said that you said a couple of times that your mind has always been different. Like what else have you noticed? Every single trauma I've ever had in my life, I've always put it away and stored it and I never dealt with it. Like I would I've only cried a few times in my life. I've cried before and sometimes it hits me. But like I used to cry a lot when I was a kid. But like every time I have trauma, I put it in my back of my brain. I'm very desensitized. My brain is very desensitized. You know what I'm saying? It's like I almost it's just like. How do I put this? My brain works really weird. Like I don't feel feeling sometimes because I'm I'm not soulless. I have a soul. Whenever I like disconnect myself, I feel things and I can feel love and I can feel passion. I can feel stuff. Whenever you disconnect yourself, you feel things disconnect from the Internet mainly like go basically like go somewhere. OK, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. Get away from all of this. Get away from everything. Take a little break. Go travel somewhere without having to work. Take time off streaming. It really helps me find myself again. Connect myself to reality. But where was I? Sorry. Oh, the desensitization of my brain. That's my biggest issue I have today. It's like it's super hard for me to sometimes feel things and and and and and and just kind of like. I don't know, it's almost like I'm emotionless and like I feel like I beat the game. What do you mean by beat the game? What's the game? When I was when I was coming in to like. You know, entering the streaming game. I had goals in the back of my head and the goals in the back of my head were set your parents up for life, put some money in your bank account, meet some of your heroes and idols and you did it. And the excitement and hunger I had when conquering this, like the grind part, the grind aspect. Was honestly. I couldn't realize it, but when I was grinding, that was the that was like the peak feeling to me when I was accomplishing all this stuff, I've talked to a lot of the people that I've looked up to throughout my life and I met them and I've had conversations with them and I got this and I got that and I did that and I did this and I just feel like I've kind of already conquered a lot of things like at a really young age. Sure. And what does it feel like to conquer things at a young age? Like I beat the game. And how does that feel? I don't know. I honestly, man, it's really it's fucked up because honestly, like, that's what drives me crazy sometimes. Like, what do I what what what what do I do now? Like, what what what do I do? You know what I mean? Sure. And I'm hearing that you really almost enjoy grinding. Of course, when I was in the grind, I had a hunger and I was boom, boom, boom, getting all my my goals and results and stuff. It's like, gosh, it was everything to me. Like that was like that was you could see the hunger, the hunger right now that I had when I'm sorry, I'll never have that hunger again. It's true. I don't want to get my world. Well, I think I don't believe I will. I wish I wish I wish I would. But I just. I don't think that hunger exists anymore. Like I'm hungry in other ways. Like now, sometimes when I when I when I when I want when I want to make like amazing content, like I want to I want to do new things. I just think about my community and what got me here today. Like my community has been here through the shitty moments, the good moments, the good content, the bad content. It's like now all I care about is just doing shit for them. My core. I don't care about anything else but my core. I want to make good content for my core because my core has been here through everything for me. So it sounds like you had some goals that were and you know, let me know if this word rubs you the wrong way a little bit more selfish before. Definitely. No, no, no, no. My main set goal was to just get rich, take care of my family and have somebody that put aside for me. And that was it. Yeah, I would say my goal was never selfish. Like once once I my first my first purchase was a Lamborghini at 19, I think. But like you're right. I guess you are right. My first. My first. My first goal. What? Yeah, I would say was selfish. Yeah. And I mean, I was thinking about a better word, you know, because I think it's like OK to have selfish goals like, you know, like it's OK to want stuff from life. Yeah, I didn't mean it to be derogatory. And that's why I was like, I couldn't I just couldn't find a better word. I think I think so. I don't know. I think when you're in grind mode, like anyone that's grinding towards something. Like, I don't really know too much about you, but like when you're grinding for like, let's just say what you you went to Harvard, right? Sure. When you were grinding to get to Harvard, when I was going to become a streamer, you kind of have to be selfish because like, let's just say like, like in a way, in a way, like you're grinding to like to you in a selfish way, like where you have to just do you basically before you can really aid and take care of others. You know what I'm saying? Like, yeah, I have to. I think that's a very, very reasonable way to look at things. Interestingly enough, I would say in my case, it was sort of the opposite. There was a time in my life where I was grinding to get into Harvard and I was nowhere near. And then there was a time in my life where I gave that up and wasn't interested in being the best or accomplishing anything, really. And paradoxically, that's what ended up getting me there. But, you know, I think that what you're saying makes perfect sense. And so I'm kind of curious, like when you were grinding and accomplishing stuff, when you got it sounds like you got a Lamborghini at the age of 19, which is like, that's rare, man. Want it's like below one percent. Well, like point something percent of just doing that. There's people that don't even have fucking houses and food, bro. And I'm over here buying a Lamborghini at 19 years old. You know what I'm saying? Like, it's like super desensitizing. What's what's desensitizing about it? Like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm haven't even had anything like that. I think in general, at 19 having a load of money and not knowing what to do with it, never being taught what to do with money, never being taught how to use it, how to utilize it. And I'm 19, I buy a Lamborghini. It's like it doesn't make sense. I don't even have a house yet. I don't even have my parents aren't even good yet. I just think it's super desensitizing making money to buy a Lamborghini. at 19, I just think having a lot of money and not knowing what to do with it at 19 is crazy. You know what I mean? So I think there's something really... That sounds like an important discovery, but I don't understand it. So how does buying a Lamborghini at 19, how does that connect to desensitizing? Can you help me understand that? I think you're on to something. I just don't... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I think what I'm trying to say is like... Maybe it's the wrong word I'm using. I don't think so, man. It's desensitizing buying a Lamborghini at 19 in general because it's like, you're not... I don't know, I just feel like not every 19 year old is doing that. You know what I'm saying? So when you come into that, that little... I don't know, when you come in and you go buy a Lamborghini at 19 without having houses and all these things and stuff, it's like... I never knew how to manage money. I never knew how to do that. And right now, if I go back at 19 and I had the funds I had, I would tell myself, don't buy a Lamborghini right now. And then what would you have done if you told yourself... If Aiden Ross from the future showed up to 19 year old Aiden Ross and was like, bruh, don't buy a Lambo, what would 19 year old Aiden Ross have done? I think I would have literally said, give it to your parents because they know what to do. You know what I mean? That's what the older you would have said. What would the younger you have done? Oh, you're saying younger than now? No, no. So if you were 19, let's say you could travel back in time. You could talk to your 19 year old self. And 22 year old Aiden was like, don't buy a Lambo, give it to your parents. What would 19 year old you have done? Fuck you, I'm buying a Lamborghini. Okay, right? Interesting, huh? Yeah. And so when you say desensitize, maybe I can offer something and let me know. So I'm getting the sense that when you're grinding, you feel really good, right? Because you're putting in effort and then you're seeing those numbers or whatever those metrics are. And then after you get it, there's like, you feel nothing? Not nothing. So I'll explain it. I'll explain it. So I'm getting the sense that when you're grinding, you're gaining, when you're grinding towards something, you get a high. After I would do a viral stream or a viral moment, I would get high off of it. It would give me some type of like release of chemicals in my brain to make me like, okay, keep going. This is amazing. I love the attention to what I'm gaining from this. I love the money. I love the dopamine release. I love it. I want more of it. I want to keep what's next. How do I go viral again? How do I do it again? How do I go again? How do I gain more followers? How do I get more? How do I gain out of this? The cloud, it's an addiction. It's addicting. Because when you're gaining, when you keep gaining and gaining and gaining, it's a high. You know? So I wouldn't say I feel nothing now. I just don't care anymore. Like I don't care as much as I did before. Like if I was stuck on a very, very small core community that just loves me and cares for me and will watch me do anything, and I don't really care about the crazy numbers anymore. I don't really care about doing crazy viral stuff anymore. Like I just don't. I care to go. I care to make good content. But like the crazy, crazy viral moments and stuff that I was doing back in the day, I don't want to put my I don't need to put myself in that position anymore. What's changed? I would say growing up a little more, going through a lot, doing a lot. I would say having more money now. I would just say, honestly, yeah, I would just say more. And in what ways have you grown up in? Experience I think I'm not 100% mature yet. I'm I've still a lot to learn. I'm still super young and I make dumb decisions all the time. I don't know, man. I think I think I still have a lot more grown up to do, but I think I'm in a better place now than I was when I was back in 21, 20. You know, how are you different one or two years ago? What was the place you were in? Less money, different, different living situation. You know, I would say less like like just less experience in general in my in my career as well. So different people around me got, you know, I don't really speak with anymore. Go ahead. We're gonna say I'm sorry. It's totally cool, dude. I was just kind of so I'm a little bit confused because like on the one hand, I'm sort of hearing that back in the day when your head was in the game, you felt good. You're grinding. You're getting that dopamine rush. You use the word addiction, which is I mean, that's that's a powerful word, man. And at the same time, it sounds like you felt really good. And and I'm sort of almost hearing you kind of say that you're in a better place now, but you like don't feel as good in some way. Like does that kind of make sense? I'm sort of sort of hearing it. I don't feel I don't feel fulfillment and high anymore after having a viral moment. Does that make sense? Like if I see a viral moment or viral clip now, I'll just laugh about it and scroll right past it. I don't care anymore as I would care back in 2021. I would be super, super like, oh my God, oh my God, I got to do more of this. I got to do that. I got to do this. I just don't really care for it anymore. Which one do you prefer, the way you are now or the way you used to be now? All about pleasing a core that cares about me. Then a trendy audience that doesn't really care to shit about get to shits about me for sure. OK. And it's being fulfilled and being high. The same thing. What do you mean? So you said like you don't get the sense of fulfillment. You don't feel as high anymore. I don't mean like drugs. I mean like what you're talking about. I feel at peace. I feel I'm cool with what I have. I feel comfortable. You feel good at peace now? Peace because back in back when I was in that 2021 mode, I was nervous and horribly going like mentally destroyed because I would always have to think about what I got to do the next day to go viral. Otherwise I'm going to fall off. You know what I'm saying? Like I was I was on a mission still trying to grind and trying to figure things out and going down this little upscale of a blow up. So I'm kind of hearing that like it's quite a roller coaster dude. So like on the one hand there's like the thrills and it's like hell yeah you feel that energy. What's next baby? But at the same time maybe there's like anxiety like maybe I can't do it like yeah you know doubt. Literally yes. Self doubt self. Just a lot of a lot of like like overthinking man. Just like straight up just you know. What kind of what do you mean by overthinking? What kind of thought? I just thought if I didn't top this stream I was going to fall off and everyone would leave me and I just thought like I didn't do this right or you know if I didn't you know figure out a way to do this stream better and figure it out then my whole community was going to leave me. I really did. I thought I thought I won't leave. And what so you mentioned that like your who you hang out with or something has changed. What's happened to your community your connections? I had a different living arrangement you know back on my name in 2021 I was first blowing up a lot of people hit me up. I had a lot of fake people in my life at that time. I had a lot of people who were were just straight up. Just not I had a lot of you in my life that weren't there like my living arrangements that I was in a whole constant house. Okay. I was full of people who do concentration as well the internet and it was just it was a different environment. I was living in work if that makes sense like I was living. Yeah I was I would wake up to a messy ass room to a stream I did the day before and I would you know I'm saying I would wake up to that like if I like was in my streaming room the other day and I and I completely broke like this one stream I did I broke like this concrete stuff with a hammer. And I slept in that like I was sleeping in work so my living arrangement in general was just completely gift like it was just I was living in work. I felt too much work work work work work you know. And how are you living now? Happier for sure. I now I now don't live and work if I want to take a day off and lay in bed and watch TV and just take one thing at a time and not live and work and go outside and it's a lot better. What I do like. Yeah I do I do I do sometimes get lonely though. Not a lot but what you're writing down there doctor. I mean I've written a ton of shit. Why are you so focused on what I'm writing now? I'm just kidding. I'm just I know I know you're right. I don't think you're kidding. Well I'm saying like I know you've been writing this whole time like I don't really care what you've been writing. I mean I know you're just taking notes. Is there something about. Can I ask you a question. I've been asking you it's kind of silly. So what I'm signaling to you is I think. What was it like to say you get lonely sometimes. I've always lived with work so I've always had people around and now that I live alone it's different because now I live alone. I don't live with family. I don't live with parents. I used to have a girlfriend like a girlfriend excuse me. I used to live with her. I don't live with her. Obviously we broke up. I don't I live alone right. So it's like for me. It's like it's different. You know I get lonely sometimes. Sounds lonely. Yeah it is but I have friends and I have you know my parents close by and stuff so it is what it is. Can I think for a second. I'm going to need a second. OK. Take your time. Is it OK to be lonely. Yes it is. I think it was but it is. Help me understand that. It's OK to be lonely. It's OK to not have to rely on somebody for happiness. It's OK to find yourself find happiness within yourself. Like you don't need to be. You don't need to be always with somebody. You're allowed to be lonely and find happiness and sleep alone and you know you're allowed to do that stuff. I think I think doing that sometimes could be good for people. I think I think people need to find themselves by being alone. You know OK. I'm going to just share a couple thoughts. Let me know like it's kind of like a shot in the dark like normally I talk to people a little bit more but you let me know what what sits with you and what doesn't. So first thing is you kind of mentioned you know early on that you sort of feel numb and or desensitized I think was the word that you use. And I just heard I was because you see you know I don't get that from you. So you seem pretty animated. You seem actually pretty in touch with your feelings like you had a really like poetic description of you know the grind and how it's like addictive and it makes you feel good but it like comes at a cost right like there are the high highs there are the low lows and the scary thing about the grind is even when you're flying at the top in the back of your mind there's like OK is this plane going to crash and then it can feel really good to like have those thoughts and beat them back with like something growing bigger and getting more viral and like you know so it's almost like you're conquering your demons because you have all these doubts and stuff and like you're going higher and you're going higher and you're going higher and as you put it you beat the game. And then you know I saw a couple things from you that I just haven't seen before except when you mentioned the loneliness. So like the first thing is you called attention to me writing which which I know I mean you know I've been writing the whole time and like I know I've been writing the whole time but there seemed to be something like what I actually felt in that moment is like a little bit of a like a little bit of a sensitivity like like you know like what are you writing like there's like like what what what did I just show you that you fucking caught is like honestly what it felt like to me. And then you also said like it and then I asked you like hey like is it OK to be lonely and you kind of said yeah right which I think you're a smart guy and I think that you use your mind to. Deal with a lot of your stuff I don't know how else to put it and then you gave like a really positive answer right like it's OK to be lonely. It's OK to like feel these things and then you kind of said it is what it is which is something that people say when something is not good. You know like well well there's perks there's pros and cons of everything right. I think there's times I'm like damn I wish I had somebody with me I wish I can enjoy life with somebody I wish I can you know I'm saying I think I think you know there's there's there's pros and cons of everything. I think you know when when when you saw me I knew you were writing this entire time when you saw me talk to the loneliness part. I mean like look man I'm going to be honest like. It's good to be lonely but there's times where I also wish I wasn't lonely of course I'll admit it yeah. You know yeah I mean so. That too it's kind of like there's pros and cons right so like I'm with you there's pros and cons to being lonely is pros and cons to being married. I'm with you I think intellectually it's spot on but but I'm kind of noticing that like any time you kind of come up on emotion your mind kind of steps in and and sort of says like oh there are pros and cons right. It's OK to kind of feel this way but something interesting happens is that you actually move away from the feeling by saying that. Does that make sense. Yeah it does. I like I said. My emotions are fucked. I feel like I don't feel sometimes I try to step away I try to move away I try to get away from the feeling part of things sometimes. Yeah and why do you think your emotions are fucked. Throughout my whole life I've always had trauma and I've always not really. Like went through it I've always kind of just like put it to the side. Do you feel comfortable sharing I mean I don't think this is the place to really air out all your traumas but can you help me understand. Huh. Yeah. So the most traumatic thing that ever happened to me was check this out right. This is a story when I was 12 was sleeping. My my uncle came in stabbed me with a knife and asleep to the mark right there to scar for life and he thought I worked for the FBI. He was on some meth. Holy shit. And then yeah yeah yeah I was 12 years old and in my sleep and I woke up to a knife and I pulled it out and I went to the hospital. How does it feel to say that. I don't care. They make jokes about it with me. They've actually helped me out a lot you know. Who's they. My stream. My chat my audience. I had my viewers. What joke. I'm confused. Well they just make me like I think sometimes humor kills voids in a way like sick dark twisted jokes. You know I mean like I think my audience my viewers sometimes help me like they make jokes about it so it's like it makes it like a little bit to try to add light to the darkness of it you know. Yeah I mean I think that that sounds I mean humor is a way that human beings cope with stuff all the time. Yeah. And I mean so even though that was kind of physically traumatic did it. How did you understand that. Did it bother you. At a young age I didn't. At a young age I didn't and my parents told me they said you don't have to go to school for however long you want. We're going to put you in therapy. We're going to do all these things and all that and I said no I want to go to school. It was it happened on a Friday. I said I want Friday Friday night after school. I said no I'm going to school Monday. They got me a cast. I went to school. I made up a lie to everybody in my class. I said that I tripped on a rust like a rusty nail. I was. I said and I ran with it. Are you. I mean that's impressive. Yeah. Like that's a hard 12 year old dude. Thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah. And I think I left out something as well. I also witnessed my grandparents having sex at eight years old as well. Well kind of witness in a way of shadows and noises and stuff. Well so it's kind of interesting because you know you call that trauma and like it's definitely trauma. Yeah for sure it is for sure it is. And yet like what I'm actually getting the most of you from what I'm feeling the most of from you is actually like pride. I'm not pride. I just try to bring it pride. I try to bring light to it. It is dark. Don't get me wrong doctor. It is dark. It's fucked up. I just try to bring light to the situation. Like I think adding a piece and then sent a dark humor to stuff is in my opinion the best way to kind of put light over it. Like it's like I. I just like that's how I guess I've been dealing with that. Always just crap dark crazy dark jokes. Absolutely man. I think literally like we can talk about this if you if you want to at some point. But I literally earlier today I can find this. Here it is. I know I'm actually reading a bunch of papers about coping mechanisms and trauma. And just how they kind of change and stuff. But it's kind of interesting. I'm noticing that. You bring a lot of positive to the negative. And that's what I try to do. Man you know what I'm saying. Like I look at it like this and people always sometimes are like damn I wish when I was growing up I didn't have it like that. And I wish sometimes like it would be easier and stuff. And I don't want to sound ignorant. There's definitely people that have had it way worse than me. But I've been through some stuff. You know I mean not probably there's people that are there to see here this that have been through way way worse than me you etc. So I don't want to sound ignorant. But I think that you got to take sometimes take the cards you're dealt with and just try your hardest in life and give it all you got. And I think part of that is finding a way to literally kind of make your mind strong. So I think when you go through these traumatic things in life you want to try to add some type of like light to it. You know what I mean. Yeah absolutely. I'm hearing that. Yeah I hear you dude. So like what I'm getting from you is that you've you're a survivor. You're a thriver despite your circumstances. Yeah yeah I would believe so. Yeah I mean I think there's plenty of evidence for that. So what bothers you about so when you kind of say like you know you didn't feel much when you were traumatized like help me understand that a little bit. So when I was when I was a kid I just never liked talking about my feelings. I always just kept it in. Like even though I was something bad would happen to me I would always just find a way to just kind of change topic and just not want to talk about it and just not want to let it out and just really just keep it in and put in the back of my head and deal and think about it later. What kind of stuff would you keep in? Anything in general. You know I'm saying going up just with any type of trauma any type of like my whatever my parents fighting or you know whether it just be my grandparents having sex in front of me or whether it be you know getting stabbed in the knife in my sleep whatever it was any type of trauma like that. I would just always try to not really talk about it put in the back of my head and forget about it. Well I mean it sounds like you're actually doing something similar even today. It sounds like you learned a different way of doing that which is looking at the positive trying to put light on it cracking jokes. But I'm hearing that maybe at one point you were like avoiding it or whatever and now you've learned a different way to like move away from it. Yeah definitely. So let me ask you what's what's the problem with like not feeling a whole lot? Scary it's scary because like I'm wondering one day is this going to catch up to me am I am I going to one day one day wake up alone at 40 years old and not have any feeling at Any type of any type of like I don't know any type of like ambition any type of like feeling and admiration. If I said that right sorry. If I any type of love any type of just happiness in general like am I going to be this empty having like this void like am I going to I don't know I'm scared. What am I going to feel in the next 10 years? What do you think you're going to feel in the next 10 years? I don't know hopefully hopefully good. Has your fear of this grown or shrunk over the last four years? Of what being scared about my future? Yeah yeah. I would just say living in the moment more and I think just not really trying to think about it because I'm scared. I just listen I think nobody wants to be alone when they're older. Are you married? Yeah. Like that's your person you know I mean like that's your best friend that's your companion that's like your rock so like you're good right. How old are you if you don't want me to ask you? 40. You're good brother you're good. I'm worried at 40 years old I'm not going to be able to find someone genuine enough to love me for me. I wear that stuff sometimes man I worry you know I just worry about that. Yeah I mean I think it's a super legit word dude like I think. You said earlier that you're known on the internet as Aiden Ross. Yeah. You were Aiden and I absolutely like there's a decent chance you'll end up with a string of people who are not interested in Aiden but are interested in Aiden Ross. 99% of people that's right. It's fucking scary man it sounds like the odds are stacked against you. Yeah but I saw myself out for it man and I used to feel bad about it and I used to hate hate it in a way but it's like I'm blessed at the end of the day man. There you're doing it again what are you doing? What am I doing? Oh adding positive to the negative. Yeah. Damn I didn't damn that's crazy you're right I did just do that. Right so the interesting thing is like I'm with you man. Yeah. But like I'm going to say something. Aiden. Please. I'm really curious and you gotta can you do me a solid can I ask you for something? What? I just want you to tell me what your response is good bad whatever. Aiden how would you feel if I said I'm sad for you? Right now you just say Aiden I'm sad for you. Yeah. I would ask well I'd be like why are you sad for me? Because I mean you just told me that there's a 99% chance that people are going to be with you for the wrong reason you just you're worried about being lonely. My initial response would be like yeah man it sucks but what can I do? The truth I mean like what can I do about it? You know what I'm saying like I mean I it would be like yeah it does suck but I mean like what can I do about it? It is what it is. It is what it is that's the type of vibe literally yeah. But then but then but then when I'm but then when I'm alone in my bed I'm gonna cry tonight and I'm gonna be like damn doctor is right but damn. I can't tell if that's a joke or not. I get my feelings sometimes man it depends like it depends on the type of day I'm having. And what kind of day you're having today? Good day. Does that make it more or less likely that you'll cry at night? Well I was adding a little bit of joke to that to that to that statement. I don't I'll never cry at night alone you know what I mean like I just sometimes get my thoughts sad thoughts that come in and it's just more thoughts that are just like thinking about my future it happens every so often but it just depends on the type of day I'm having. That's all. Okay any how's this going? I like this. What do you like about it? I like having an actual conversation with somebody that's a good conversation. Uh a serious conversation. I don't get a lot of these unless it's with my parents or close friends and I think meeting like you're a stranger to me. I'm a stranger to you. I think meeting a stranger and having like an intellectual conversation like this is it's nice I like it it's something different that I usually don't do. Well no wonder you're lonely. Damn I mean I tried. No I'll tell you what I'll tell you I know I know I know. What did you hear there? I was like damn like what damn dog like why'd you say like that? Help me understand how what you heard me say. I said it's like it's rare for me to have intellectual conversations with strangers and you said no that's wonder why you're lonely. Yeah I mean I mean I mean yeah you're right but it's hard to have intellectual conversations with strangers that want to leech off me and use me for things. It's harder to see the real in people you know. Yeah so like yeah I wasn't it wasn't like it wasn't a dig at you. I know no I know you're good I know. Right because like I dude it's like it's hard like like you don't even get to have regular conversations with people bro. Yeah so like in person when somebody recognizes me they'll come up to me and ask for a picture. They won't even want to have a conversation with me. It's the same script every time. Hey Aiden can I get a picture? They walk away. It's no how's your day going it's no I'm good man what do you do what's your name. It's no hey man um what you I try I try to conversation sometimes I do but it's it's like I would love to have a conversation with people who know me. I'd love to get to know them as well you know. I'm hearing Aiden that you sometimes get treated almost like an object. Yeah for sure. And all and let me like by the way you you gotta tell me if I overstep or something okay. But like and I'm just saying like you know if you just think about it for a second and anyone who's gets treated like an object gets treated like Aiden Ross instead of Aiden like like they're gonna be lonely. My point my man it's very it's gonna be very hard for me to find the one. One. Well I I'm a little bit more optimistic I I think. You think I will. I think so. Thank you. I think you absolutely can so can I tell you why. Tell me why. I think you're good at growing. Like I think you're good at growing like like you put your mind to something and you work on it like you're a resilient guy. I think you had to learn certain ways to survive. And you paid the price for that in a weird way. So like the weird thing is if you look at our brain like our brain can't selectively suppress emotions so what it learns how to do is shut them like you can turn down the volume but it's not like you can just turn down the volume on some instruments. There's a song playing either turn down the volume or you turn it up. And what I'm hearing from you is that you turn down the volume a lot. And over time you've actually learned healthier ways to turn down the volume. And so what you used to do is like I'm not quite quite sure what not really I mean we can if you want to at the end I can pull out an iPad and walk you through like you know almost like lecture style like what traumatic coping mechanisms look like in the evolution of coping mechanisms and stuff. But and then now I'm hearing like a lot of you know something that is on the so a lot of humor but also like a lot of like fatalistic acceptance and almost like resignation. Yeah so is that a good or bad thing? It's neither. It's a strategy. So I think that on the one hand if you don't like because here's the thing if you were alone at the age of 40 how would you feel about that? If I was alone at the age of 40 I don't know doctor I don't know how my brain's gonna be I don't know you know what I mean? Let me toss something out you see if if it sits with you okay? Okay. I think you would be like kind of okay with it because you knew that this would happen right you always knew that the deck was stacked against you 99 percent of people are gonna see Aiden Ross and not Aiden like you saw it coming like you fucking see it coming even today. Yeah. And so like you're not gonna be surprised if you're not surprised. Yeah. And so like you're not gonna be surprised. You have a doctor who wants to be 40 and alone bro? I mean I think no one. Yeah. I mean I'm hearing what do you what where's what are you feeling when you say that? I want to be 40 years old and alone you know it's just like when you when I think about it's like damn like it's a realization it's like who actually wants to be 40 years old and alone waking up alone I could have a billion dollars in my bank account doctor I still would not want to be 40 and alone I'd rather have less than a billion. You would trade that much money for what? A real one. My best friend a companion. What's it like to want that? I just think like right now it's like I'm chilling but I just think like later on it's gonna be harder. I think it hurts. Right now? No. Because I'm so distracted right now there's so much going on I'm like distracted I'm doing a lot. When I'm not streaming I'm still you know I'm saying I'm doing something. So when you say it's gonna be hard like what does that mean? I think it I think I'm like 30 most of my friends are gonna be married with kids and they're gonna be doing their own lives and they're not really gonna have time to be kicking on me anymore and I don't know what I'm gonna be doing with this stuff anymore hopefully I'm still doing it who knows but if I'm sitting there I got nothing going on no career at that point. I don't even think that far like as far as a career wise but I mean like I like to think because I don't know this game I don't know I don't know what I'm I don't know what I'm doing but I just want to I want to figure out. Aiden it's okay it's okay to be scared dude. Yeah I think that's what makes me human. Yeah and I think when you don't let yourself be scared that's what makes you not human. Yeah. That's what makes you a robot. True. Right and I think that there's like I mean by the way am I like beating you up here? You're not you're making me think actually I like thinking. Okay how do you feel about feeling? I love feeling I love feeling feelings. Are you feeling feelings now? I am feeling feelings with you. What are you feeling? I'm feeling very curious I'm feeling very like open-minded I'm feeling very interested in this conversation for real I really am I like it a lot. Okay. Okay so let me toss some stuff at you okay we doing all right can I can I keep going? I love it yeah of course bro of course. Um I mean so here's here's kind of like I think it's like it so so it's really interesting because I think you intellectually understand what you feel I think you just won't let yourself feel it right so like you recognize you're you're scared you recognize you're lonely you know you use these words that are like emotionally bland so you say it's gonna be hard but like yeah and I get that and you're right it's 100% accurate but it's also like you're turning off the color on the tv right like sure like okay doctor can I tell you something yeah like have you okay have you ever obviously I'm not trying to bring this up if you're like if you don't want to talk about it that's fine I completely understand when you before your wife like you're with many women right that you probably have no connection with sure what I'm trying to get at is like when you when if you get with a lot of girls there's no connection or anything it's called like in my generation I don't know what's called in your boomer generation for me it's called fucking hoes it gets old like nobody wants to keep fucking hoes I don't be 30 40 year old fucking bitches I want to be 40 years old with a wife and kids that's the goal correct right like that like that's like the fulfillment but I think like when you're when you're when you're if you if you do that for your whole life it's depressing and there's a void and you're not fulfilling anything it's just like you're fucking with your wife and kids it's just like you're fucking about your hoes so you realize that you're the ho like you're the one that's doing that shit these that's how it is now in my generation is fucked up doctor you know how bad like these girls doctors so fucked bro it's bad it's very bad it's been very hard as it is being me and on top of that it's gonna be hard in general because these girls nowadays doctor they're fucking bad bro I might just go gay fuck it I know I'm a joke I was a joke I'm sorry I'm sure sure all right so let me let me tell you what I heard yeah yeah yeah I think there was a really important communication in there I just don't know if my boomer ass can decipher it so help me out bro okay so what I'm hearing is that like there's a certain amount of pleasure in sexual activity yes but there's a lack of fulfillment of course after I'm not I want the bitch to not talk do it I'm sorry I'm just sorry I want I want the girl the female the queen to not speak to me look at me leave why yes that's unfulfillment sex it doesn't make sense why am I having unfulfilled sex but why do you want those things why don't you want them to talk to you afterward there's no point what but so this is what I'm confused about so you're engaging in this behavior and there's some rules to the behavior and then you feel unfulfilled and then as you get in your court you become the hoe so like I think somewhere somewhere in there like you end up in a like I don't know what that means but I don't think it's good it's not it's not good that's why I stopped fucking getting with girls for no reason like I stopped doing that right yeah yeah there's no point so like it's not good it's post not clarity you know what that is obviously right sure after I nut like in the moment like yeah like so what are you looking for before to get my nut off okay but like and then how do you but post not you're telling me post not clarity is unfulfilling and makes you feel like a hoe yeah but in the moment doc it feels good I mean like well I mean yeah yeah but I mean so so sure so like sex is fun I'm with you okay but okay but like like what I'm kind of pointing out is like you're engaging in behavior that makes you feel cheap that makes you feel unfulfilled yes yes correct that's why I'm telling you like I don't see the point it gets old like I feel like when you when you when you get with girls for an unfulfillment post not clarity it's pointless it gets it gets old after a while you know what I mean yes so maybe this is a whole conversation for a different day I'm just gonna toss this out there there is a connection between the way you treat yourself and the way that you treat other people 100 right so yeah you're hearing what I'm saying no can you break it down please yeah sure so like I hear you use a particular kind of language and also engage in a particular kind of relationship with people that you're sexually active with yeah because there's a difference between a girl like a genuine like okay girls are girls but doctors the difference between a girl and a and a and a whole like like it's different it's different like a queen and a hoe it's two different girls like I'm trying to tell you like I want to find a queen fuck the hoes the hoes gone and they can you know I'm saying like there's no like what's the difference I gotta start what's the difference doctor you're not gonna marry a hoe you're gonna marry a queen what's the difference a hoe is a girl that if I literally dm right now um she'll she'll she'll literally come over first night give it up like I don't gotta take her out I don't gotta compensate with her it's just like you know what I'm trying to say so that is a hoe I don't want to wipe that you wouldn't want either you wouldn't trust me you wouldn't because you would not they're solace you you know nothing about my relationship right well no I'm just assuming nobody wants to wife a hoe doc so here's here's what I'm hearing to be honest Aidan I think I think a lot of it's in your head like so I've seen relationships where that start off with sexual promiscuity that end up in in the same that are happily married yeah and I've seen relationships that they wait until marriage that end up in divorce yeah but yeah yeah no you're not wrong that's why like 70% of there's like isn't the divorce rate like higher than it's ever been right now I don't know I don't it's it's been a while it's been high for a while yeah it's about 50 like sub 50 crazy and you know people that aren't even divorced they're some of them not all of them not going to assume but most of them they're unhappy and they want to get divorced but they won't because of financial support because they have kids etc so like a lot of people are unhappy in their marriages that are still actively in their marriages you know so sure I mean I think I think we're this is getting to because I think though a lot of this has to do with the way that you perceive these people so like I know this sounds kind of weird but like it sounds like your your determination of whether someone is worthy or not worthy of marriage has to do with their behavior that's what I'm hearing 100% definitely right so so I know it sounds kind of weird but like whether someone is worthy or not may have to do with your attitude too 100% but you have to understand like you're not wrong what you just said that's why I stopped doing it like if a girl if I damn a girl what are you doing tonight come over whatever she comes over and like I put on a movie I know what's about to happen it's like I don't have like it's like it doesn't feel like it's like how do I put this after I'm done with what I want to do I want her out it's not not being a bad person like I'm not a bad person for that I promise you I'm not no I mean I think I think if like people are if it's consensual and people are not interested in romantic attachments and like two people want to get together and have sex I don't think there's anything wrong with that right as long as you're not disrespectful and it's consensual I wouldn't I would say there's not but like actually I agree with you on that there's like nothing wrong with you know I mean like two people coming together and do what they want to do and in part of ways 100% but like I'm a sapiosexual you know what that is attracted to intelligence no I mean demisexual like I like I'm attracted to like someone that like I have feelings for I can only now I'm at the point my life where I can only have sexual stuff with somebody I actually like like I have feelings for I can't I can't do stuff with girls I have no sure so so let's but like what determines whether you have feelings for someone if I like them and they like me and we compensate and I feel good energy and I feel really good around them and they feel really good about aryanid okay so I'm gonna toss something out there sure can I think for a second yeah doctor let me pee real quick is that okay absolutely man go go go go this may take longer than two hours oh he's a he's a he's like honest guy you got to give him that he's very authentic tries you got a lot of genuineness very genuine oh okay you doing good yeah I'm all right how you doing good I didn't wash my hands so whatever man it's your place you live alone um so so okay how how confident are you in the stuff that you're explaining to me that there's like two kinds of women in this world pretty confident okay and help me understand where that confidence comes from uh being with hoes and being with queens there's two differences okay so what's it what is it what does it feel like to be with one versus the other oh you want to have sex with and then you want her to get out the queen you could have sex with it's called making love okay because you're you guys both like each other it's different it's more it's better it feels better you know what I'm saying and then and then after after you're done with the with the queen sex you guys cuddle you you rub each other you watch you watch tv you watch more tv so so I know it sounds kind of weird aiden but what I'm hearing is that the difference isn't in the person the difference is in your reaction to the person yeah definitely right so so I know it sounds kind of weird but if if the difference is in you not necessarily okay so check this out right let me give you an example let's say there's a girl named Tasha Tasha hold on a second sorry Tasha fucks Larry and then she fucks Joseph and then she fucks aiden back to back to back nights that is a hope okay what what what is that what are you saying I'm trying to break it down like that's that's that's like a hope that's that's you know I'm saying so a queen it's it's yeah it's about my deaf defining of the behavior of these women but a queen is someone who how do I say this it's like in their own like they're they're aiden okay hold on forget about everything you're explaining for a second okay and listen to you so when I ask you what's the difference you say that the way that that you feel with them is different yes right like that's it because with both of them you know there's intercourse but in one case it's fucking and in one case it's making love what's the difference aiden between fucking and making love making love is better you know what I'm saying fine one is better I don't know if I entirely agree with you there but you have a wife you know what I mean like so you know what it's like like you do know like though okay the conversation for a different day but what I'm what what else is different when you're in love with somebody and you make love to them it's way better than sure it's better but what makes it better because when you fuck the hole you know you don't want you don't want nothing to do with them anymore you don't want to you don't want any you don't want to talk look you want them out of your room okay so let me explain let me just point out but the difference is in you it's not in the person you're saying you don't want to it's the connection or lack okay so the difference between fucking and making love is your emotional connection to the person yeah okay so the first thing is like that's not their behavior now we're going to get to behavior in a second that's coming from you well yeah technically yes okay so I don't know if I'm going to get banned for using this word ho but so I'm not going to use that word also I consider it disrespectful but that's fine I mean you use the whatever language you want to so let me ask you this is it possible to fall in love with someone with whom you have you start off by having meaningless sex yes it is okay right so then then like love is not determined by them it's still something within you correct but falling in love with a ho is a no no okay why bad they got ho tendencies they're gonna end up fucking you over they're gonna divorcing you once they get once the baby pops out and they're gonna get some child support money it's a no no how do you know what they're gonna do doc I'm just like they have tendencies brother they they they they fuck to get to the top they fuck to for money they fuck they where where are you getting this so hoes do my generation it's different brother you're 40 I'm 20 I'm it's split in half I'm telling you my generation is bad bro you should see what these women do it's very fucked up no I'm asking so please think about the question for a second where are you getting your information my experience your personal experience yes and and my my my peers my other people my space my base like work buddies um um I would say so this is what I'm not I'm not denying I'm not saying you're wrong I'm just genuinely trying to understand right because I I know it sounds kind of weird but like I know your regeneration really well oh you do my generation 100 man it's bad so you can admit it's bad right I think there are parts that are bad for sure my generation is full bunch of tick-tock low attention span brain children and and and and and um like really I said children but obviously like the 20s like 18 19 year olds that's what I'm about that like it's it's it's very bad I'm a tick-tock brain myself doctor and this may sound weird like and we I'm not right here okay yeah your generation is full of human beings trying to make it in this world just like every generation of before the world has changed yes right I'm with you but like I still think it's like you know this is the kind of thing where I wonder a little bit about like when you engage in a transactional relationship with someone from the get-go and you treat them transactionally I think it's reasonable that you're going to get that in return right right and so like when when you say like these people are going to behave like this like I know it sounds kind of silly but I'm really not trying to be a dick here you understand that people's behavior is not solely based on them it also is influenced by you so a girl acting and behaving like a hoe is influenced by me 100 right so like I'm a human being and you're a human being right if I came to you and I said Aiden you're not you don't know what you're talking about you're all fucked up in the head I am going to I've gone to Harvard Medical School I am doctor I am psychiatrist Aiden you don't know what you are doing you need to get married I will find you wife we'll go find you nice girl she will be good she'll be good girl not these people you are dating on the tinder and the bumble in the hinge and all of this like you will you need to settle down now beta this is not fair come on bro this is great this is great right so like if I approached you like that how would you respond laugh laugh okay right so so the way I interact with you is gonna determine how you interact with me that's correct I actually get what you're saying thank you for that putting it like that right so so like my point here is that I mean I I don't know what I mean talking about here or where this is going but like I don't doubt that your experience is the way that it is but my point is that like you know so I work with patients who are narcissists like am I am I am I a narcissist by the way you're speaking with me or no I don't know it's too early to tell you definitely too early to tell so so like from a diagnostic perspective the the diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder requires like a very long history of like understanding a lot more stuff I think the other thing that's complicated is that content creators by definition become more narcissistic because that's the only way you can survive content creation thank you for actually saying that you're not wrong I've changed I think I am I definitely give up narcissistic tendencies you're actually 100% correct you just said when you're a content creator you've been in it for a long time like it's like you look at view count your money all these things so many yeah yeah so so I I'm not going to label you a narcissist or not and if there's narcissistic behavior here I think it's like defensive in nature is my gut check for most content creators okay so what do you diagnose me as is there anything you can I would not diagnose you with shit brah really yeah well like literally I wouldn't diagnose you with anything because that's this is not medical care and if you want to understand the process of diagnosis sorry to disappoint no don't worry you're fucked up in some way I just won't say it for no I'm kidding no no no no no Aiden so seriously what it is is that the the questions that determine a diagnosis are very different from what we're doing wait doctor can you can you diet can you prescribe me lean what is lean before what a four what I don't understand the question cough syrup promethazine cody like you know what I'm saying yeah no um but let's can I go back to this thing about the way so so like your behavior influences someone else's behavior right and their behavior influences your behavior and so I think that like what I'm worried about is is that so you don't want to end up alone so like I don't want you to end up alone Aiden I want you to be happy you seem like a good dude you seem like a dude who's just doing your fucking best and you do some things really well and and somewhere along the way you've conceived of a worldview which I don't think is the best what do you mean I'll get to that in a second so because I'm trying to I'm challenging your beliefs right yeah I yeah yeah I just I I grew the part where you're doing the best I just I didn't know what you meant by the other part yeah I'm getting I'm getting that okay so like like first thing to understand is that your relationships with women are not like it's not like there's two camps of women that there is there is the doctor like okay you can you can you can you can choose to judge people that way yes but like that's me being being ignorant then if you want to say that but yes I will yeah you can choose to judge people that I'm telling you like scientifically it's just not it's not like there's two kinds like so human beings are complex creatures so like you're not you're not a dick or a hoe or anything like that you're you're just a human being who has gone through life and your brain has wired your psychology has wired so that you have a constellation of stuff like you're a complex guy right there are times where you feel like a hoe because you had a lot of meaningless sex and there are times where you feel in love and there are times where the scariest thing of all you fall in love with someone who you judge as being not a queen yes and then that's scary and then what happens is you your mind does the same shit it does with all these other emotions where it's like would you let yourself fall in love with someone who's not a queen fuck no absolutely right so in comes the humor in comes the suppression in comes that I never feel anything in comes the like all that other shit because somewhere along the way so then you won't let yourself love and then from the outside that's not true though doctor listen because it's not it's not because doctor nobody wants to marry a hoe well not nobody I'm speaking you're right I'm ignorantly speaking from my based on my perspective I don't want let me finish I'm just talking hypothetically here okay okay all right so my point is like if we put ourselves in the shoes of the women that you interact with they can label you as one of two things right I don't even know what the fuck they are but forget about it they can judge you oh this guy's an asshole or this guy's a prince whatever right yeah and and there are certainly people that are going to do that my point is that you are a complex human being that has a lot of shit going on definitely and and that your interactions with women may be easily judged as this guy texted me and now he's whatever he's a player like whatever he's an asshole whatever he's toxic whatever they can label you with that shit but my point is that there's a whole complicated like internal like stuff going on you're like a whole universe in there man yeah you're not wrong um I'll give you an example right doctor I want to ask you a question okay and you'll be honest and everyone can answer this the honest way possible would you rather you're already married so just pretend you're not married pretend you're an 18 year old doctor okay well what were you doing when you were 18 mostly playing video games and what game uh maybe uh starcraft okay you're 18 years old playing starcraft right yeah there's a girl on instagram at the time let's just say there's instagram there's a girl on instagram who's got a hell of followers shows her ass off all over instagram all this stuff her tits everything right you invite her over she comes over doc right away you you text her hey what you doing tonight want to pull up she's like sure let's watch a movie tonight the new the new uh uh uh stranger things came out season let's watch it tonight she pulls up you put it on for five minutes she starts rubbing your dick you start kissing you fuck her okay you want her to leave her right away because come on look how easy that was you want you want a challenge you don't you don't want that listen to this you go to europe for vacation you meet a girl you meet a girl over in europe she's maybe had one or two guys she she's fully clothed it doesn't really matter the clothing part but she just has she's has she has an intellectual conversation to do about stuff you guys go on a couple dates you really are starting to like this girl she's starting to like you as well does it matter i'm sorry which one would you rather go with go with for what like which one would you rather marry i'm sorry i don't think that the variables that you described would be very important for i i completely said that wrong i'm sorry like i should have explained it and you got it i'm just don't but you gotta get what i'm saying you got what i'm trying to say so so yeah i here's what i hear you say you're trying to put it put me in a hypothetical example in which you paint someone who's like got this extreme and then you paint someone who's got this extreme and you're kind of pointing out to me hey fuck nuts it's not that complicated there's two types of women in this world which one would you rather marry bro and then and then if i say i would rather marry this one right let's say i'd rather marry the european then how would you feel like good shit doctor you're smart and if i said the other one doctor no brother that's not that's the one you don't want to marry go marry the other girl she's not for you bro all right doctor i got you let me let me let me let me bring it on more this instagram girl she has two baby daddies two different guys she has uh 500 bodies and um she uh i told you she's like half naked on instagram okay okay this this other girl the european girl no social media you know what i'm saying um she has two bodies and she just you guys hit it off intellectually like you guys are like it just feels so good it feels like you guys are connect okay who'd rather marry so let's assume let's say that i marry the european i'd rather yeah right but but i think there's a big difference because you're presupposing that one of them has an emotional connection the real question is if you also like because you're saying that the emotional connection so what are you what are you hearing me say aiden i know i'm happy i'm happy to say what like you can construct the scenario in whatever way like you get that you can construct the scenario in whatever way if one of them has a year to live has cancer has hiv has all this shit and and this the other thing is what you it's subtle right because you're doing something really interesting you're adding promiscuity to a set of other negative traits sorry what's promiscuity i'm sorry i'm having sex with a lot of people right you're not saying the scenario you're giving me is rigged right because it's not like you meet this person she's only been she's she's intellectual she's beautiful she's amazing she's a saint she's awesome she's european because apparently that has some extra appeal and she slept with 500 dudes right like so like you're sort of creating this scenario where like there's promiscuity on one side or like having sex with a lot of dudes but there's also a shit load of other things and then if i keep on saying no what are you going to keep doing you're going to keep on adding other shit until you get a yes if i was your boy okay i'm talking about i'm talking about the scenarios you just got to get it you're you're actually politically correct the way you're wording things you're right technically there's so many different breakdowns you give me and stuff you're you're not wrong what i'm trying to say is bro if i have a boy who is dating a hoe if everyone you guys want if you have a boy who is with a hoe with a girl who is just wrong to him all these things like what do you mean by wrong to him just sorry not wrong to him specifically just wrong like a girl that has her morals all fucked up right and nobody's perfect by the way i'm just saying like it's as my boy if my boy was in that situation be like yo bro no no no no no get another one that is it okay so let me ask you something do you think people who are very sexually active can end up in happy fulfilled marriages yes there's these things called whole phases in my generation everyone goes through a whole phase okay i went through a whole phase i don't want to go through a whole phase anymore now i'm allowed to go through a whole phase but if a bitch goes through a whole face fuck no send her ass to the curb i was a joke yes yes yeah okay yes yes so so so women everyone's allowed to go through a whole phase okay can i be honest with you a girl's allowed to go through a whole phase if she's upfront honest about it i think not a girl in general i think everyone is if you're upfront honest about your whole past and tell them like everything what you've done and you're very direct and you don't find anything out like that's hidden stuff i'm okay with that i think when you're older people realize that like it's cool like yeah i mean i think i think honesty and transparency and authenticity are important parts of relationship i think so too right so a lot of a lot of girls lie about their body counts a lot of girls lie about their past and stuff in my generation why do you think that is insecurity what does that mean women if a woman has a lot of bodies she's known as home my generation and whose fault is that the girl i don't think so right because what the girl is trying to do is avoid your judgment okay angel let me take a step back is this is this useful do you do you think this is a good conversation no why don't we go to something that makes more sense this is like a stupid topic what makes this stupid it just doesn't really it's just like dumb it's like you you you and i see different you know i mean like it's like there's no point in you just like you know you're not going to be able to do anything about it you're not going to be able to do anything about it it's just like dumb it's like you you you and i see different you know i mean like it's like there's no point to really talk about it i just like i agree with you that there is less point to talk about this yeah i'm just a little bit curious what did you hear me say about like this whole like what determines whether someone is a hoe or a queen not gonna lie doctor i'm not trying to be ignorant but i think like my perspective and experience on life makes me like i already have this shit like in my head like it is ignorant it is like super like judgmental and stuff like and i'm admitting that but like it's it's like i already have like i already kind of like know like what i want and a woman i already kind of know what i well i told you doc i mean i might not even fucking get what i want who knows yeah i so i'm i'm hearing that you're not open-minded on this topic yeah i just think we should move on okay it's just like just what it's pointless it's like it doesn't seem like it's not that it's pointless it's just like it's just like this a lot more topics we could have that are way more interesting okay what's pointless about this because you and i see different like i see different yeah i think we see different and i think you're correct with a with a lot you're saying in the way you're speaking but like i have i have a different perspective i think than you you do like i think like my perspective like i've already like experienced what i've experienced so like i'm automatically gonna think the way i think does that make sense like i already have like yeah so so so that we don't have to talk about it more but i just want to share one last thing with you is like so i think that's what makes it worth talking about is that you have an automatic perspective yeah definitely yeah yeah for sure and so i think one of the really interesting things is if like as we go through life it is very normal for us to form conclusions about how life works how people work right and then the interesting thing is that if we stop and re-examine our life we can come to different conclusions yeah i agree we're not we don't have to continue okay the reason i brought some of this stuff up in the first place i don't know you know where this came from but i know i know i think the one thing that i'm trying to signal to you is a couple of things one is that it seems like having sex and making love has more to do with what's in the inside of you than it does i agree okay so that's the first thing the second thing is that and i'll tell you why i'm even talking about this now because i mean i have a reason why i think this is important is that i'm concerned aiden that so i want to help you not be alone at the age of 30 let alone 40 whatever okay and the thing is just based on once again my experience and the whole point of having conversations is that we're going to have different experiences of life we're going to come to different conclusions right totally great and then the neat thing is that maybe i'm trying to tell you to get on a chair and you're just saying fuck you oh sorry what you were saying like don't climb on the table and you're like no i when someone tells me to climb on the table i got to climb on the table so i'm wondering if that's going on here but my point is that i think first of all you're the way that you relate to women has more to do with i feel like i'm getting a disconnection so sometimes when you talk about it it seems like your interactions with women are determined by them like this person is this way because of their behavior this person is this way because of their behavior i don't judge i don't judge anybody based on their past i come from a fucked up past i had a whole face myself i'm just saying like like i'm just go ahead go ahead yeah my i'm not necessarily saying that you my point is that it's determined out there like women are there are two types of women right there's hoes and queens 100 yes in my generation doc whatever whatever i'm not going to i promise you in my point is that like you something within you determines whether you're fucking or making love it's not just them right yeah and the reason that's important to me is because you want to end up with someone that you want to make love with that's correct right and so then the question becomes if you want to end up with someone that you want to make love with and you can have feelings for i'm trying to think of a word that's not hope but i just can't think of anything right so you and my point is that there could be a group of people like like like there could be someone out there that you fall in love with that could be a successful relationship and i say this to someone who's worked with just to give you an example we don't have to get more into this i don't need to i just want you to understand one thing and you don't have to understand if you disagree is that you have a contribution there's something in here that determines the way that you relate to people women that's all i want you to take away from this and if we can agree on that we can move on um wait so say that last part again something in here determines your relationship with a woman that's it that's all i'm asking it's actually right here in my brain yes not my heart my brain nothing in here changes your relationship to women oh my penis no no your heart i mean sure your penis your brain i can't tell if you're joking or you really don't think that bro i'm doctor i get what you're saying you're correct i'm like you everything you're saying i get it i i told you i'm ignorant based on perspectives in my life i'm ignorant you're probably right there's probably girls out there that have had a whole past that are queens now great but my perspective my generation there's some fucked up girls who fucked up things and i and i try to knock myself in that position so sure sure so so i think that like my point is that the way you all i'm getting what are you hearing me what are you hearing me conclude that it's my heart that basically is the reason why the f3i3 women the that you what the first divide coming up to queens and o's no no no no no so no no actually not exactly so here's what i'm saying all i want you to just really think about yeah is that in a relationship with another human being that relationship is not determined by who they are it is determined what i feel they bring a piece of it to the table and you bring a piece of it to the table okay yes okay and now we're going to get to like the stuff that we were talking about earlier which is like the lack of sensitivity that you have so you feel numb in some way correct okay so so it feels weird to go back here so what i'm with this bro we can go back to another topic go ahead but but so so i'm just so derailed give me a why why derailed there's a whole different energy and dynamic to this con the conversation we just had about relationships to the conversation we were having before i agree the energy definitely shifted doc i agree right right so it just takes me a second to like move away from that i was also the language that you used changed the way that i felt in the conversation well yeah i use pole and i use queen yes yeah yeah so it's just that affects me yeah yeah yeah why does it affect you you why does it affect me or how does it affect me both why and how does it affect you why did that why does that thing is that i feel uncomfortable and defensive being in a conversation where that language is being used that's just our generation how we speak like it's like you you said that when you first joined i'm a boomer i don't need i don't need a reason i'm just sharing with you why it's hard for me to make the shift okay but i'm just i don't i'm just trying to leave that out there that's yeah that's it's like you know you use that language and whatever you can call it generational if you want to um i think it is huh i said i believe it's generational most people that yeah you know and so that's just that that's just why it's hard for me to shift back into like where we were before yeah it takes me a second yeah hell yeah so you know because like you're schooling me about dating in your generation and that's a different feel from like let's talk about sadness loneliness i think that they're both actually really productive conversations i really appreciate you for having both of them with me like i feel honored to be a part of both of those conversations also scared to be a part of the last one but like i can hold two feelings at the same time right no don't be scared man it's just like i want people got to realize like there's really modern day pimping going on in the world like for example these guys are now signing onlyfans girls you know what i'm saying and it's like modern day pimping in a way you know what i'm saying so it's like what's wrong with me being scared i guess you're right scared as good as a feeling yeah right i can be scared yeah i'm just saying my generation i appreciate you looking out for me so what i heard when you said that was that you're like you're looking out for me and i like i felt the love there that was that was nice of you thank you i got you you doctor yeah no you're gonna ask i want to actually hear you ask i was gonna ask you to remind me of what we were talking about and what feels relevant to you oh i forgot we were talking about before i think the desensitized uh yeah so when we were talking about relationships how did you feel it was honestly just interesting so interesting is i know it sounds kind of weird is not really a very good word for a feeling i'm not trying to be judgmental there right it's very basic i agree right right so so like what do you think you were feeling in that conversation um i liked having that conversation because i like it's like i enjoyed it because it's it felt good well not good but it's just like i i knew well yeah i mean it's just like i i know i know the difference between well my perspective on life how i feel about certain women now that might change when i'm older doctor that might change when i'm 25 or 30 you know what i'm saying as of right now i just know the difference between what i you know what i'm saying so let can i share with go ahead sorry no i just i just know the difference in my generation when between a hoe and a queen so here's what i felt from you emotionally i felt confidence i felt certainty i felt you being on sure footing okay what do you think about that what's the last word you used sure footing like you're on solid ground yeah yeah i'm standing on it for sure is that how you felt yeah right so so like i think that there's something very attractive about all of that because it makes you feel good oh thank you you call me attractive i mean i'm an attractive for you okay right so like like do you see how like emotionally there's no numbness when you're talking about that i do the numbness isn't in really conversations i like having conversations i feel from conversations like the numbness comes from i guess daily life outside of conversations the desensitization comes from that okay so i've detected numbness in you in our conversations but when we're talking about other things so for example when you say it is what it is i think that's you actually like numbing yourself out a little bit right because like what are you gonna do about it right what am i gonna do exactly there's no point in having the feeling correct and then the feeling goes away that's right right so i think there's there's numbness and like what i'm kind of noticing is that that that conversation about relationships was like really lively right it's like super energetic i'm feeling uncomfortable you're feeling on solid footing and so there was like a little bit of reverse uno here where here i am talking about sadness and loneliness and i'm like fucking i can swim in that shit all day and it was kind of like a it was like a reverse of our positions suddenly you're schooling me i'm not trying to school you i'm just wanting to inform you i'm gonna say this and i mean this and like the kindest don't take it the wrong way please and i'm gonna say like just listen about it and i gotta say and all right when i'm okay when i was 20 or not even me i'm not using this example i don't know who's 20 years old in here and i don't want to sound ignorant 20 a 20 year old in my generation is smarter than a 20 year old in your guys generation okay and i'll explain why they're more how do i say enhanced in a way like we got this my uncle doesn't already use a fucking phone you know i'm saying so it's like i don't want to say this in my way it's gonna sound so dumb i really don't want to like you actually got to really understand i'm sometimes really bad at explaining things but like a 20 year old in my generation i feel like in a way is more experienced is more experienced than a 20 year old in your generation so i think that like do does that make sense so here's what i'm hearing so this conversation has the same energy to me as the last conversation that we had which is sure footing confidence you really have a clear view of the world and everything makes sense yes so i see a lot of excitement from you but i don't think that this is having this conversation like you can school me all i don't mind being schooled by you by the way i'm not trying to school you i'm not trying to school you at all i'm not i think i'm gonna stop using that word because that's whatever you know my point is that this conversation is going to be the same as before where i can ask you about your opinion it's going to go back and forth it doesn't even matter because we're not going to agree the other thing it's not about not even not agreeing whatever sure but i think the other thing is that in these conversations we're not talking about you anymore you're talking about society you're talking about generations there's no room in there for your experiences and your personal feelings or mine does that make sense because we're commenting about that shit over there i know you're saying it doesn't make sense but at the same time it's like i'm i that's why i kept saying it's my perspective on the other topic i kept saying like i might sound ignorant it might be ignorant i'm just saying how i feel based off my experiences sure so what would you like to talk about aiden i don't know uh well i was doing great this year lifting weights and losing weight and stuff and then i went through something traumatic and then i started sipping lean you started what sipping lean sipping codeine and uh promethazine promethazine codeine and yeah and and what what makes that what what feels important about that to you to talk about today um because it's bad what's bad about it it's just like it's a fix that i did when i was going to do when i was going through something traumatic and i was doing super good in the gym and it kind of like ruined a lot of things around me and uh it's just like a super super bad reliant fix you know what i mean it's just drugs it's like liquid heroin that's what they call it so it's bad have you considered seeing a professional about something like that i don't need so i've done it in a couple months i stopped i wasn't highly highly addicted but i was i was on it for a while is it okay if i ask you a little bit about seeing professionals like professional mental health people yeah ask me whatever you want so it's i'm hearing that you it's not a problem anymore so you don't need to see a professional yeah yeah i don't i don't think about i don't crave it at all i don't you know i mean then why talk about it i'm just giving you an update what i did this year i was in the gym yeah yeah yeah yeah so just just kind of like like this is what you went through yeah yeah yeah and then i was on this path of kind of like in this i guess people call it the controversial era where people that really don't know me that aren't a part of my community that just don't know me they would see these articles and things and just assume i was an asshole um i would say things like there are two genders in this world um i made a tweet saying there are two genders okay like i went through like this controversial era and that was labeled controversial so when i made a tweet saying there was two genders my talent agency dropped me from it they said you look what he tweeted this morning he said something super controversial and what what was what do you understand tell me about that what's going on with that so i mean i i slow down i stepped out from making like tweets like that and stuff but when i when i tweeted that out it hurt a lot of people i didn't do it to hurt people i did it because a week before that twitter was on my ass about something old my motive was like cool you guys want to target me for this i'm gonna make a tweet twitter and show you guys that because they were trying to cancel me for something cancel on twitter so i was like okay watch i'm about to make a controversial tweet try to cancel me now and it went it was my craziest tweet i think i was like 600 000 likes and like millions and millions of views and what what what were you kind of is that kind of the same sort of like thing where it's like if someone tells you don't do something you're like fuck you i'm gonna do it not really i did it because i did a tweet because i knew it stir i knew people would like talk about it i knew it would be controversial in my generation even though it's not um but i made a tweet because i wanted to show cancel culture fuck you cancel culture watch and i did that tweet and now people still i think it's like yeah like people like it didn't matter like i didn't get canceled what what makes you want to do that i wanted to show people fuck answer culture it doesn't matter i'm gonna tweet out there's two genders they're gonna try to cancel me i didn't get canceled i i understand that you wanted to show people something what was driving you to prove your point the tweet when i tweeted it i knew it was gonna stir so like i can't the culture is trying to be on my ass oh what drove me to make the tweet was so like a week before cancel culture was on my ass trying to cancel me on twitter and i was like fuck you cancel culture i'm not going to go for that so i'm going to tweet out there's two genders and they're even more mad okay so i'll i'll this is this is great maybe we've hit our limit for the day but maybe not so let me point something out to you so i'm asking you you engaged in a behavior right you tweeted something out yeah i'm asking you why did you do that and then the answer that you give me is something else outside of you right they were trying to cancel you yeah okay so what i'm curious about is stuff in the outside world happens and then stuff in the outside world enters you and then something else happens and then you feel like doing something else right like there's there's a there's a stimulus from the outside world and then there's a response from you to the outside world with me yes i'm with you what goes on in the middle like what happens within you when they try to cancel you like does that like that's what i'm asking i'm curious about what how does one action that is done to you result in a response from you why did you do that instead of apologizing or any other of the thousand things that you could have done oh anything tweet anything i think i think maybe just the table thing we talked about like i like doing the opposite i like people most people would fold and apologize i didn't care i got banned from twitch that soft one-sided platform you know what i'm saying so i was like fuck fuck twitch fuck up the fuck this and that led to more shit more stuff you know what i'm saying so um in my opinion i just think why would i apologize for saying there's two genders there are two genders so it's like i did it yeah yeah so so like when you say why would you do that do you do i feel emotional energy when you make that statement but why though i'm saying like you said like logic no i'm just trying to ask you like why why did you why why though when i when you asked like why didn't you just apologize or do another route it's because they're like what what would i be apologizing for sure i'm not suggesting that you should apologize what i'm kind of pointing out is that so this is where i think the emotional numbness comes in so generally speaking when when someone says something to me it affects me in some way and then my drive to act and the way in which i act is shaped by my internal environment right so someone says fuck you alok you're an asshole and then i and then i can feel one of two different things i can feel ashamed and if i feel ashamed i will apologize or i can feel angry i can feel affronted i can feel territorial and then if i feel angry affronted and territorial i will turn around and i will say screw you does that make sense it doesn't make sense the behavior and and the weird thing is that the mind actually the logic follows the emotion not the other way around i just think yeah yeah yeah i actually agree with that right so so if we're talking about emotional numbness i mean i'm just picking this as a random i don't care what happened on twitter honestly i don't yeah you know but i think that like what i'm kind of pointing out to you is that earlier you talked about being addicted to the high of grinding and we're talking a little bit about how you have some of these feelings and you're not quite sure what to do with them and you you sort of like you do a good job actually right so you learn how to crack jokes you learn how to like accept it is what it is you can't necessarily change it there's no kind of no point in worrying but the worry is still there at the back of your mind and what i'm pointing out to you is that a lot of your behaviors even jumping up on the table i'm not sure how much in control of that you are what do you mean so like if someone says aiden don't jump on the table i don't know that you can control whether you jump on the table or not no i i definitely control it doctor i think that's like why like my whole life is like where i am today i think not listening to what everyone's doing have you ever seen a picture of it's like but can you listen to what to what other people tell you to do of course but like i have to i have to experience it myself like that's how i so then i'm hearing that you can't until you experience it yeah i mean i can listen but i mean i'm still gonna probably want to do it myself yeah right so so when you want to do something most people are like that though like for example like when you grow up when i grew up as a kid sorry when i grew up i'm gonna start i'm gonna stop over generalizing when i grew up as a kid i was curious right like i when i was in high school i would sneak out and i would go to a party like that's just me being curious even though my dad was like yo don't do that like you don't have to you know i'm saying like i just think it's about when you're when you're when i'm curious i you want you let me ask you something do you control the curiosity or does the curiosity control you it's a good question i think the curiosity controls me what do you think about that it's not good doc but i mean a lot of people have that you know a lot of it's like it's 50 50 i think i think it's curiosity controls you or you control curiosity so everyone's different i think i don't know what i don't know why i think it's perspective how you grew up but i think yeah so so if i can share something yeah go ahead so i want to try to catch a couple things that you say so other people are like that are generalizations i'm gonna actually move in the opposite direction i don't care about how other people i don't give a shit okay what i'm interested in in this conversation is you and what your experience is so whether other people are whatever happy unhappy good bad whatever fuck right we're just talking about you and i yeah yeah and and i think that some of what this emotional numbness i i think that this is connected because generally speaking we can't control something unless we're aware of it yes right so all you have to do is go to the dentist and if you can't feel your mouth right so numbness and lack of awareness leads to a lack of control correct and so what i'm kind of noticing is that you engage in behaviors that feel righteous right like in your mind they're logical and stuff i'm not saying they're not logical it's not my place to be the arbiter of logic and determine what is right or wrong whether it has to do with relationships whether queens and hoes like whatever i'm not the arbiter of truth what i'm hearing from you though is that there is a internal dimension that doesn't get a whole lot of play in the way that you interact with the world right these people did this so i'm gonna do this this person said don't do this so i'm gonna tell them i'm gonna do the exact opposite sounds like some people that relationships that you feel emotionally connected to you can actually listen to them if your dad tells you hey aiden don't do this mom says don't do this you can like set that aside yeah i can't i just have it aside but i still kind of i'm i get curious you know what i mean like it's like yeah yeah yeah yeah so so i mean i think curiosity is beautiful but my point is that like i don't the thing that i'm worried the most about is that i don't know if you're in control of your life i think you have a lot of power and i think you've managed to probably control all of these external dimensions so it sounds like you've got financial security it sounds like you have freedom it sounds like you have a lot of stuff out there but i still get the sense that you are a puppet to yourself 100 i agree with you on that i'm a puppet to my to my career literally i'm a puppet to my chat swear to god i what do you want to is that okay how do you feel about i don't like it at all i hate it but it is what it is doc is what did you just do there i did it i did it doc you're right yeah yeah what'd you do i i tried uh voiding i tried like avoiding the the the feeling of it by putting a pause like a little is it is what it is on the on the so what what did you push away i pushed away the truth when what is the truth that i'm a puppet how does that feel it it sucks it sucks in what way it hurts doc so let me toss some stuff out okay all right what i'm hearing there is powerlessness it's true and when i hear you at the age of 40 you don't know if you're going to be alone or not powerlessness there too oh no i mean you're not going to know what you're doing by 45 dr wfit to be honest nobody nobody knows what we're you know i'm saying logically no one can predict the fucking future i agree with you aiden when i'm saying the emotional energy okay okay is powerlessness right because you're like fuck 99 percent of people treat me as aiden ross there's one percent and let me ask you something what's more common aiden queens or hoes hoes and what does that mean for your future i'm fucked what is the emotion that goes with i'm fucked it is what it is right it's powerlessness yeah and so here's the crazy thing okay now i'm gonna kind of like i'm gonna try to say this okay and reject it if you want to reject it so it's my belief that you're like all of these things that you're scared of you gotta stop running away from them yeah right so like if you admit to yourself i am powerless then you can do something about it right you gotta meet yourself where you're at gotcha right like you gotta say like when people you know the people who get divorced are the ones who don't think that their marriage has a problem the people who say this marriage is on its last legs we got to either bust it or try to save it you have to admit you have to accept the truth of what you feel even though even though if it's the hard truth you still gotta accept it absolutely right and i see you doing that i don't see you running away from it in a way i can accept it like if it's in my face and i feel it i'm not scared it i'm not scared except the truth i'm really not yeah so i hear you kind of saying it is what it is but then you're still moving away from it you're not actually moving towards it and and that's where like as you start to feel that powerlessness i think you're gonna find right and now i'm fucking making a mistake here but i'm gonna i think you're gonna find as you get in touch with your feelings that a lot of this stuff is active when you because like when you're talking to a girl i think there's a lot going on inside you and the thing is like if you kind of think about it like you've got you've got one really good trump card i could be wrong right so you can tell me hey this is the generation you're wrong dr k you don't know what it's like so you can tell me i'm wrong i'm going to admit that all i want you to do is think and pay attention to yourself because once you start labeling people as this or this you suddenly become really protected right because the second you label someone a hoe if you fall in love with her that love ain't ever gonna hurt you it allows you to push her away it allows you to like set yourself apart it allows you to avoid connections and vulnerability yes you're right and so like the thing is and so the crazy thing is that if your mind has an ulterior motive to protect you from your emotions it'll like screw something else up that's good though it's just a it's defense you're right it's defense but the question is who's in control are you clear-headed or are these things working behind the scenes i mean good the way to put it i guess i just think that like no i mean that is that is really a good way to put it because i don't know if i'm fully in control you're right right and so all i want for you to do is like i want you to have whatever you want thank you doctor i appreciate that really like yeah you know and and i think like dude you've accomplished so much at the age of 22 and so like this is where like you're kind of saying you don't have any passion for what's left because i think you're right you beat the game you figured out how to succeed materialistically yes now what now you're where you know who gotham buddha is you know what buddhism is that's the guys with the bellies right yeah it's the guys with the bellies so i'm gonna tell you a story okay okay so there was once a prince in india and his name was gotham buddha his name was gotham okay and gotham had it all so when he was actually about your age he was the prince of a powerful kingdom he was loved he was respected he had a queen like a real queen who had given him a healthy son okay and so he every everything in life we had heard everything in life that he had heard was like okay if you're unhappy the problem is that your date and hoes not queens the problem is if you're unhappy it means you don't have enough power if you're unhappy you need more money you need more financial security you need a lambo you can't be driving no fucking toyota you need a lambo all of these things will make you happy and then that worked for everybody else right because if i'm trying to drive in a toyota i don't have a lambo i have something to reach towards i have something that gives me a sense of progress right there's some way of keeping score and that feels really good psychologically to feel like you're making progress but then he had everything and one day he woke up and he was unhappy and then he's fucked because what does he do now right like what how do i find happiness if i have the lambo i i have a queen i have a child i'm a prince of a powerful kingdom i'm like what everyone else craves in the world is what i already have and i'm still unhappy and so he did something really weird he gave it all up and he's like i gotta figure this shit out and so then he went to these spiritual teachers and gurus and all this kind of stuff like looking for answers and then what they basically what he kind of discovered was that there's a lot of like internal work done and if you tell me that you've beaten the game i think you've beaten your external game beating that's really getting the materialistic aspect of things but they're still emotional and they're still like a they're still like that type of thing i have to master i think i think that's the game that like and this is what happens is there's also this really interesting kind of happens is there there's also this really interesting kind of um saying which is that you can't meditate on an empty stomach and that if you really look at it there's other stories i can tell you but conquering the material so i tried to become a monk when i was 21 oh nice and i went to my teachers and i said i'm ready to give up my life and become a monk and i wanted to devote myself to spirituality in this internal game okay what happened my teacher said what do you mean give up you've got fucking nothing you have nothing to give up you're a fucking failure at life you have nothing worth giving up so they said get your ass back to and this goes back to harvard okay so now we're going to come full circle so when i was 18 years old i decided i was going to be pre-med and i wanted to go to harvard medical school just like all the indian kids and i was going to be the smartest fucking doctor and i was going to have the biggest fucking swinging dick and i was going to be a chad and all that kind of stuff and i ended up failing a bunch of classes because i didn't know what the fuck i was doing then i go to india and my teachers tell me you have nothing worth giving up get your ass back to america finish your studies and do the best that you can finish a doctoral degree and then at the age of 30 if you want to give all that shit up and you want to take your vows we'll take you and so on that day aiden i was like you and i said these fuckers these fuckers don't think i can do it i'ma show them so i went back i didn't give a shit about harvard i just wanted to be able to give up the biggest thing so i put myself put myself fully into my studies like went to med school i didn't even show up at my award ceremony because it never dawned on my mind that i would get an award for being at the top of one of the classes i love that man that's amazing and like they were all so smart because they realized like being a monk ain't for me because they're good at that kind of shit and i think that where you are right now is like you've got to start this journey and like it's the journey to be happy and no amount i hate to break it to you but finding this magical human being out there it'll bring you happiness at the time but then you're going to beat that game too you're still gonna wake up unhappy wow you're right damn so that i mean the happiness comes from so the happiness does come from being alone okay well not being alone but i would say happiness comes within like you're like you could be you could be alone and be happy like you could be like you don't have to be with somebody or land happiness or anything like that you could you could do it yourself yeah i mean i think that's what you're going to discover and i think even if you look at your own life you're going to discover that there are two kinds of happiness that you've experienced correct one is going to be like this dopaminergic happiness and one is like a quieter kind of thing right and this numbness that you've got is like getting in the way of feeling that damn all right i gotta find spiritualness i was spiritual one point i was i was very spiritual i lost it i gotta get it back i need the light let me find it yeah i i think you're gonna be fine the one thing i would recommend for you is just catch yourself anytime you say it is what it is and whatever you feel just like let yourself feel it it doesn't have to have any implication it doesn't need to be logic'd out just close your eyes and just let it be there without pushing it away without doing anything with it just fucking sit with it okay i'm gonna do that doctor i mean like anytime it is what it is i'm just gonna be like no it's not it is what it is face it sure yeah yeah yeah that's a step in the right direction but even then there's a cultivation of emotion there right because you're like errrr i'm gonna conquer it i can see you're you're moving around quite a bit you doing like we're done i'm adhd do you want to leave me already uh i thought that i was getting i'm getting physical signals from you that you've probably hit some kind of limit i just have adhd doctor let me stand up a little bit no i mean i i think it's okay to be done what do you think oh um it is okay i just enjoyed it um yeah so how do you feel when i'm you're leaving me already doctor it's a joke what do you mean sure i i completely agree that you are using humor as a defense mechanism related no i mean i mean like it doesn't matter if you leave here now it's like whatever i'm moving on to the next thing okay but i mean like it's like i meant it as a joke sorry my bad maybe i'm over interpreting yeah so right there yeah i i like to in terms of stepping away so aiden i find that like two hours is like i feel like we're in a good pausing point and opening up a new chapter would be a commitment to like another hour or two okay i'm down to do this again and what can you help me understand what your experience of this conversation was a lot i think you're actually starting to change my perspective on how i feel the most important thing i gained out of this whole thing is that it's it is what it is is unacceptable stop accepting stop saying it is what it is and i think it's time to really just just let it do its thing it's okay yeah yeah and and um what i got from this conversation first of all aiden i think you're just you're a remarkable human being who's been dealt a really good and really shitty hand at the same time it's rare to see nice so if we're playing you know if we're playing some poker i got i got a nice maybe like a two pair like a you know what i'm saying yeah i i think i think your life defies poker analogies like i can't if i was thinking about poker specifically you know it's like one of these hands that like is really strong and really weak at the same time like there's there's a lot of stuff that a lot of shit you've been through man yeah a lot of hurt and also like a lot of exceptionalism yeah a lot of growth yeah and and i think that i've also learned about what it's like to be a part of your generation i'm you're you know you're teaching me about what gender dynamics and stuff are like for for some people like like doctor there's my generation is so cooked bro you can now like kids in school they're learning about like getting pushed like weird agendas and shit it's like fucked up it's yeah i know it's yeah you know what i'm talking about it's like bullshitting i just hate like my generation is just ass sad i i i think that you're just i i don't feel that way but i i think it's totally fine for you to feel that way i think your generation is getting crushed honestly yeah i think yes so i i think they're just trying to do the best they can with the hand that they were dealt and i was addicted to video games and like video games weren't even that addictive when i was growing up it's way worse now so nah nah nah doctor the best games were call of duty black ops 2 fucking all them shit now it's ass all right so so another place where we agree to disagree but call of duty black ops man that's the best game of all time black ops 2 all right but i can be in game chat and call somebody you should check out a game called have you played bg3 no i'll just gate three okay and it's it's okay for people to like different kinds of food and different kinds of games we don't i don't know that we need to argue about it but maybe one day if we really want to throw down we can what's your favorite food food i love indian food by the way manta paneer is so good with naan garlic naan it's amazing yeah it's good stuff it's it's just when i can't i never have leftovers i put my fridge it stinks up the whole house for like three days but i love it it'll do that stink up the armpits too yeah but i love indian food by the way but what's your favorite food though what do you mean by favorite the food that i enjoy eating the most yeah yeah i mean that's my favorite is right we particularly like to eat um so back when i was a monk i detested this particular kind of food that not i mean i wasn't a monk but back in my training days i started to fall in love with like a rice and lentil dish dish called khichdi and it's the kind of thing that like it's weird it's like the super bland but by the end of eating that stuff every single day i absolutely loved it it's some of the most enjoyable food that i've eaten um but i'm a big fan of like tex-mex so i've got a couple of favorites so i really like like tacos i really like uh pani puri is another indian food it's one of my favorite indian foods um have you ever had have you ever had what i'm talking about manta paneer i i don't know what the first word is but i'm pretty sure i've had it yeah manta paneer it's like it's like this dish m-a-t-a m-a-t-t-a-r matter yeah so it's peas peas peas and and paneer yes yeah yeah it's a vegetarian yeah yeah okay yeah yeah sure i've had it's so good yeah where are you from aiden florida okay okay where are you from doctor texas what part of texas i'm in houston basically h town yeah houston school i think austin's really fun too have you ever been to austin i have i went to school there you really yeah sweet i was actually going to go to college there doctor that's like where they wanted me to go to college ut they want me to go to the ut yeah i think you have been great there well the community college first and then ut i would transfer sure all right god i didn't do it right oh you want to leave now yes all right is that okay that's okay i give you permission yeah i appreciate it i i don't i'm not trying to pull out but i also like the point where we're talking about what's my favorite food stuff i'm totally down to like hang out sometime i'll take you out for indian food like that's totally cool i'm not trying to um i don't want to reject you and at the same time i'm married with two kids and it's a weekday all i do have constraints on my time yeah i'm pretty understand um all right doctor i'll let you get to your family and your normal life thank you so much i'd like to do this again you know you have me sign a form i usually hate girls with nda's you hit me with like a a consensual form and stuff what's going on there last question yeah so it's totally fine um i think we were doing some back and forth but then y'all ended up being okay with it um so the main thing is that we just want people to really understand that this is not therapy right so will will there's something called informed consent and that's really the most important part of the form and there's also some legal stuff so like for example this may get uploaded to uploaded to youtube what's your channel by the way what's your channel healthy gamer okay so this may get uploaded to youtube and so just that you consent for that to happen and stuff like that so and then we also have a policy where if you want something taken down you just message us and we'll take it down i think generally speaking people we've had we've interviewed a couple hundred people and you know most of them are pretty happy yeah wait are you allowed to talk about your other clients i don't i'm saying like allowed to no no i'm saying like who have you interviewed that i would know my space if you interviewed anybody in my space before i don't know what what your space is what do you mean by your streamer like a streamer yes we've interviewed many streamers train rex i've had several conversations with train rex train is fantastic he's amazing i love train such a good guy yeah that's cool oh is that me or him chat was that him aiden brah huh i can't hear you bro i'm hearing robot voice hold on a second let me see if i can go to oh there we go we're back okay doctor go to sleep okay your family this is the universe's way of telling us that this is a good stopping point good luck to you aiden you too we could do this again we'll do it again yeah sure let's let our people talk okay all right all right thank you so much man all right have a good time okay all right so um okay so let's talk about a couple things so i want you all to be careful about a couple of things okay so the first is like this cooked and you got him like it's not a contest there isn't a winner and there isn't a loser right like we do this to have conversations with people and like i want y'all to really understand that this is i i really hope that watching this will help y'all although if you choose not to have a little bit more compassion i won't blame you to be honest i really won't but like you know behavior happens for a reason so we didn't really get into this with aiden because i don't think it's the time yet but if we talk about let's say promiscuity right so i've worked with people who are like sex and love addicts and i think that there's just a lack of understanding that human beings are like complex organisms and you can have a behavior like promiscuity which can have all kinds of reasons for it right so like just let's just run through top reasons why people are promiscuous number one they have low self-esteem and so it's a badge of honor to be able to get laid in some way right there's an objective sense of like oh i'm a better human being because i got laid and so like your sense of self-worth gets determined by engaging this in this behavior right number two reason that people have sex is because they're afraid of being alone right so if there's like abandonment fears and this is what i really see in a lot of like my my patients that i've worked with who had sex and love addiction that sex begins to mean additional things i can't get people to love me and in the past when people have loved me they've abandoned me or they've hurt me but i've got one trump card i can play to get people to stay right which is why your toxic ex is happy to put out when you guys haven't talked to each other for six months because it's how y'all get fucking entangled again and and so this is the the big thing and i don't know if aiden's paying attention totally cool if you are bro loved it right but your internal environment is something that a lot of us are blind to and so then we sort of develop some of these coping mechanisms where i know it sounds kind of weird but there's actually research that shows that coping mechanisms lead to poor outcomes lead to poor outcomes coping mechanisms can make your life worse and why is that it sounds really weird right because everyone's like learn to cope like you meditate like oh like meditate more like meditate your problems away but the reason for that is that when we cope when something's bothering me in life and i learn how to cope i no longer need to fix it because it's not bothering me anymore this is why people in abusive relationships end up addicted to substances because this person hurts me and i can make the hurt go away by using drugs or substances or tick tock whatever and then as i make those feelings go away i tolerate the relationship coping is not fixing fixing now coping mechanisms healthy the healthy use of judicious use of healthy coping mechanisms leads to positive outcomes so there's like it's more to it okay but for like you know i just really ask you all that there are going to be people out there who will piss you off have very strong world views and we can kind of see it right like what is the what is engaging in the world view do you can try to logic and argue and like both of us realize hey like no one's fucking learning anything here but think about how it feels to engage in that i love it too i love it because there's a part of me that's like this guy doesn't know what the fuck he's talking about he has no clue but what is that that's arrogance on my part it feels good to be arrogant who am i to say that this kid has no clue so don't get into stupid arguments with people and if you get into stupid arguments with people start to think a little bit about what this does for you when i get to into arguments with idiots i feel better about myself and since i'm feeling crap about myself i can do two things i can go bully someone or i can get some dumb ass on the internet into an argument that is indefensible and bully them and then i'm going to see all my stuff get upvoted i'm going to see all their stuff get downvoted and then i'm going to feel good about myself and once i feel good about myself i'm not going to make any changes in my life because my life is shit and instead of fixing that i can school noobs on the internet this is what happens on the internet so think a little bit about your internal environment and what drives you to do the things that you do and it's not my place to say that the world is one way or isn't one way like i really don't know like literally i do not know there's all kinds of conflicting research all kinds of conflicting perspectives all you can really know is what's in here this is the only place that you can have perfect information the rest of it is like questionable and so don't worry about all that crap i mean i think you should try to do good in the world right so i'm not saying like abandon the world but for fuck's sake start with yourself start by trying to be happy start by trying to understand yourself start by crafting your own destiny instead of being a puppet to your internal drives if if aiden was a puppet to anyone else he'd be fine he can handle anyone except himself and that's like that's the human condition and and please y'all don't look i'm not saying people shouldn't be held accountable for their actions i have no idea you know like i don't know like i don't follow the guy who's the guy who's i don't know like i don't follow the guy on twitter it's not my place to pass judgment that's not what we're here for and for those of y'all that think that this interview was like a mistake or whatever like you're allowed to say that and if you all don't want us to interview certain kinds of people like that's fine like i'm not saying that's fine as in like you're allowed to have your i mean like please let us know and like tell us right hey i think this is harmful for these these these we're not here to hurt people we're here to help people but one thing that like we're just here to talk to human beings and like i believe that there's a decent human inside 99.9 percent of people i've met a couple people in my clinical work that just there's i just don't think there's a decent human in there i gotta say that right not i'm not such a dumb idealist that i think everyone can be saved but for fuck's sake we we could do way better than we're doing right some people are just so neurologically like impaired in their lives of just i mean we're talking about like severe trauma or brain injuries or all kinds of other stuff there's all kinds of stuff that like maybe people can't change but you know like people like me people like aiden we can change and y'all can change too right and it's it's like it's not my place to say that you should change in this way like if you believe that there are only two sexes or genders or whatever like that's false and here's the signs and we can fucking have that conversation one day if you want to but it's useless i mean it's not useless i take that back that's dumb it is not the conversation that i am gifted at having and what i want y'all to do more than anything else is think about yourselves and think about like what's going on inside me because if you want freedom in this world it's not going to come from the world it's going to come from you you can't control anything outside of you and boy if you want to lose freedom in your life the quickest way to lose control of your life is to try to control another human being because when you try to control another view i don't want this person to break up with me you compromise yourself i will do whatever i need to to stop this person from breaking up with me and that's when they control your life let people do what they want i'm not saying you should tolerate abuse right but also i've worked with people who have had to tolerate abuse for a time the whole problem with abuse is that we try to get people to stop instead of leaving anyway so like learn about yourselves y'all there's so much power in this world that you can find in here and i'm not talking about like like finding your inner chi i'm talking about like literally if you just understand the effect of your emotions on your behaviors this whole thing where it's like you know stuff comes into aiden and stuff just flows right out there's no like modification internally the capacity to internally modify the capacity to respond instead of react that's what y'all should focus on let whatever comes in comes in we can't really control that i can do some magic in here and then what comes out can be different and when you start controlling what comes out of you then your life will change because that's all you can control and we waste so much energy trying to control everything else yeah i still meditate not yoga every day but okay all right y'all so i want to thank y'all and i i mean i wasn't watching comments too carefully but i really hope that y'all were kind and compassionate that's what we're really here for i don't know if this is against tos i'm not quite sure what to do about that but i mean i guess if we get you know anyway the cat's out of the bag now and i think that like sometimes people will use language that we don't agree with or appreciate with and like we can sort of let them know that but you know i don't know and and i apologize if anyone's been hurt by you know the language that aiden used or i used for that matter i mean who knows i may have used toxic language that's not really my intention at all and so i honestly i'm like sorry if anyone's been hurt by anything in stream today include including me ranting at you right so i really appreciate everybody coming today my hope from the bottom of my heart is that we've been able to increase awareness and understand ourselves a little bit better i really hope that someone has benefited from this i've certainly benefited from it i hope aiden benefits some from it i hope all y'all benefit from it as well and that's what we do here so if y'all are new this is what we do we talk to people and we have frank conversations with people and like we have conversations with people and like you know it's my belief that like engaging people in dialogue is like really a really positive way forward i mean that's what i do in my day job and it works pretty well and so i i know that the internet is judgmental and i'm not saying that there shouldn't be accountability but that's just not i'm not a judge it's not my place to cancel someone or not cancel someone so that's like outside of my purview let the smart people who know more about the difference between right and wrong figure that out and i have no idea when we're going to be streaming next i'm sure that it's somewhere but frankly chat i'm fried like just fried and it's not that's not a bad thing it's just i've hit my limit for what i can do today thank you all very much for coming and we hope to see you again