 Thanks, I'm nervous. Everyone is nervous. Have you seen other people say that? I Think so. Yeah, everybody's nervous. What are you nervous about? Um Talking in general our talking is hard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, it's I think it's completely normal to be nervous would it help you to hear that I'm nervous too or would that make things worse I Don't know I think it's funny Yeah, because like I don't know what we're talking about Mm-hmm. And like what if I don't say the right thing? Oh It's okay, I don't always say the right thing either But I feel like you have a very good way of saying things So I know that's why I'm nervous right because people come on and they have this expectation that I have a good way of saying things Mm-hmm. And so like the only thing I can do is disappoint Nope, I don't think so. I think you're good no matter what Yeah, so if I were to tell you that what would you say? I? think you're great that you are and You know what you bring to the table is what you bring to the table, that's cool Yeah See that's a problem that I kind of have yeah I have I think I have a bit of imposter syndrome here when it comes to that Yeah, so tell us about that um Is that what you want to talk about today? Are you gonna talk about something else? I I talk about anything Yeah, what do you want to talk about? um Yeah, that's like something we could talk about because it's something that like occurs a lot yeah, um so what do you mean by imposter syndrome or Maybe it's not that but um Basically whenever someone tries to like tell me that I'm like doing really well or that I'm Um Mmm performing well at something or like doing well like whether it's this or that I always attribute it to not really being because of me um I think most see it. Huh. Yeah, sorry go ahead um I think it's mainly just like the people I'm surrounded by who like carry me a lot You get carried Yeah, that's how I feel. Yeah You're the noob and and you're with a bunch of pro players Yes, you guys are coming up together Sorry, I uh probably speak a lot in league terms or think a lot in terms, but that's okay We won't hold it against you Yeah So then what what are you in league? Um, what am I? Yeah, like what do you play in league? Oh, uh, I play d carry Really? Yeah So you're the carry Oh, but i'm oh no, no, no That's just the league in real life. What are you? Yeah, what's your what's your league position in real life? In real life. I feel like i'm kind of like uh, I feel like a support I feel like I try to like run around and be there for everyone as best I can Yeah You know what? I am in league What i'm a minion? What? I just I just run down a particular lane mindlessly And get farmed by other people Oh, no Yeah Um, it's okay. I'm pretty much the same. I'm pretty much like uh, like a cannon minion if anything. That's yeah, maybe it's worse All right. Why is it? I thought a cannon minion was better Yeah uh I don't know Okay, maybe I messed up this see There you go messing it up again No one's around to carry you now. Yvonne. Yeah exactly. Yeah, it's me so So it sounds like but it does sound like you try to help other people a lot Uh, yeah, I think so Yeah, can you tell us a little bit about that? um uh or I guess it's just kind of what I do at otb. I try to like be there for everyone if they need help or whatever The company needs help with so yeah, it's just like I try to like get everything done and make everyone happy Try to make everyone happy Well, it also makes me happy seeing they're happy because I care about them a lot Okay, so it sounds like you really do care I hope so Yeah You hope so? Yeah, I I mean, um Yeah, I I think I care a lot You think you care a lot, how would you know i'm just um I don't know. I think uh, there are a lot circumstances where if it wasn't them or um Yeah, if it because I feel like in this what for what I do I really have to like the people to like what I do So that's why um uh, just like interact with them every day and like live with them and like uh, yeah, just Working with people like every day. I feel like you sort of have to like them or like your life wouldn't be very like Great, or you wouldn't like your job at all if you didn't Yvonne would you describe your life as great? Uh Not so much right now, it's okay What what makes it so it sounds like that question maybe you seem a little bit more nervous or what are you feeling right now when I ask I feel really nervous. Yeah, something changed you were talking a little bit more Uh openly so like what did you feel when I asked you that question? Um, I think it's like overwhelming a lot what's been happening on like social media or like um I also kind of got out of a relationship lately. That's been like Really turbulent for my emotions Yeah, so there's just like a whole spectrum of things that's been like I guess overwhelming and like this time period because it feels very Um I guess it feels like there's a lot going on in such a short amount of time. Sure. Yeah I mean that that sounds incredibly overwhelming like just too much to handle all at once. It's sort of like your Your adc is inting and your top lane or dc Is Yeah Pretty much there's a lot of stressful things happening. It's just like every lane is falling apart and you're a support You're trying to you're trying to like your mid laner like got off to a bad start and got ganked by their jungler And then your top laner dc'd and then your adc is inting Chaos everywhere. Yeah, and it's like you can't fix everything Yeah, is that how it feels? Um, i'm trying to it's like i'm i'm like slowly like fixing things one by one sort of thing Wow, that's actually pretty impressive Because most people just crumble under the pressure I feel like a lot of things are like Either a with time it's better or like to you learn to like manage it better after experiencing a lot of things. So Cool. Yeah That's you sound like you're quite a resilient person Maybe I never thought of myself that way how do you think of yourself? Uh It's a hard question sounds simple, yeah I don't really know Yeah, it's weird, right? So like I just want to just call your attention to something so it's kind of weird right that we're all like Call your attention to something so it's kind of weird right that we like think about ourselves in We know in which ways we don't think about ourselves But we don't know how we think about ourselves You don't see yourself as resilient and you're pretty sure about that, but you're not quite sure how you see yourself Which is like a weird way to live life, but that's actually completely normal We don't really know we don't think about who we are. So maybe we could try to figure out how you do think about yourself So some of so one thing to just acknowledge right is so it sounds like you think about yourself as Less than what other people see Yeah, I would say that for sure yeah, so we can just let's put a pin in that for a second What's it like to think about yourself as less than what other people see Uh, I feel like I don't believe anything that people say so Um Whenever they say like for example, oh you're like channels doing really well or anything I Feel like a lot of it is not because of me. It's because of like Um all the really great people like around me and I also feel like Whenever they say like my If they say like my work ethic is really good. I feel like that's just what you should be doing most of the time It's just like regular work um like if someone hired you for something or if like you're working at like In company, like you just be doing what you're told or like stuff like that, which I think is just like basic or um Um Um Can I just repeat back a little bit of what I heard sure sounds like you've got a pretty high evasion rate for appreciation Yeah, I think so it's kind of weird, huh Yeah Like when people try to tell you that you're doing a good job. You're like dodged easy Yeah I think so and it's still nice to hear but like um I just remember my friend walking up to me at a party And then he was like wow yvonne like your channels your youtube channel is doing really well and I was just I felt zero like Credit for it. I felt like I didn't feel that much happiness hearing it. I over fanny What did you feel? Um The first thing I just said was oh, yeah, but it's not me Yeah, so how long have you felt that it isn't you Um For like a long time I don't know exactly how long but Yeah, it's been like that for a bit have you felt that way before you started streaming Uh no, but that's pretty different because Before I started streaming. I was just playing games and I wasn't there's like no one There's no like numbers to measure your success or like any type of stuff like that It was just like i'm just playing video games after work and like that's it sure And and so what effect does numbers to measure your success have? Um, uh I don't know, but I feel like in our industry. It's like a lot of people look at the numbers Um, I don't find myself having that much value towards the numbers Especially nowadays. I feel like they're very hollow to me and they're just like I feel more uh I put my emphasis on if i'm happy or not and I think like If i'm just doing what I enjoy, I don't really care like how much numbers or whatever I put out Are you happy? um In terms of like what i'm doing. Yeah, I get to like play friends play games with my friends every day and like that's what I Enjoy sounds I think i'm unhappy if I don't have friends to play with Okay So earlier I asked you if your life was Great and you said it's okay and so let me just Pause for a moment and and think through what i'm hearing and then you let me know if we're kind of on the same page So there are a couple of circumstances Like so you mentioned that what's going on right now and I don't know exactly what you're referring to but I'd love to hear more about that Um, the second thing you said is that there's a lot of turbulent emotion around a breakup So those are sort of like maybe temporary debuffs Right or like, you know, they're like conditions like weather patterns that may clear over time But i'm also getting Some sense that you know, there's something that isn't temporary somewhere along the way you started to think that like You know the numbers and people's appreciation and your value the value that people see Doesn't like fit with what you see Yeah, that doesn't feel quite as temporary to me that feels like it's sort of baked in What do you think Mm-hmm. Yeah, I agree So now then what I see is a fork in the road So what we can do is we can talk about what's baked in right? Like where do you get the like? How can I say this so You have a particular Impression of yourself and when someone tries to appreciate you you dodge Right. Yeah, it's like a instant rejection almost and I can't help it exactly So then like if we think about that, the reason that you're dodging is because it doesn't fit Which means in turn that you have a particular perception of yourself Right, so then the question becomes where did you learn What you are? What you are Like how did you learn that so we can talk about that so we can talk about the over Like the the idea of like how you view yourself and like where that comes from Or what we can do is talk a little bit about sort of the effects of what's going on right now as you put it Or the effects of the breakup and because those two things could be related Like sometimes when people break up with people like when there's a breakup going on their sense of self-worth Takes a hit and it becomes harder for them to appreciate it to accept the appreciation of others Um I think we could go with uh, what's going on right now and the breakup. Okay, cool Let's do that first Okay, let's see if we have time for the other one. So tell me which one of those do you want to talk about first? The breakup or what's going on right now? uh I'm not sure which order is better or if there is one Yeah, okay Maybe we can just do it in the order that you mentioned though Okay What'd you mention first? Uh things that's going on right now. Cool. How nervous are you by the way? um I'm pretty nervous. I'm like shaking a bit. Yeah. Yeah. So do you want to just think about that for a second? Should we help you with that? uh I think it's okay. I think it's just like Just nervous to talk about it a bit Okay, sure So let's let's give it a shot and if you're still feeling pretty nervous we can pause and try to help you with your nervousness Does that sound okay? Yeah. Yeah Because I you know if you're gonna be nervous for an hour and a half that's gonna be rough man No, I mean like I think no matter what I'll feel a little nervous, but it's just like You know talking about stuff especially Uh having it out there. It's just like a little intimidating Okay, let me ask you one last question to derail you because you're you're just getting your feet steady under you Yeah, um, do you view yourself as a courageous person? Um No, but I am trying to like do a lot of things this year to like push myself out of my comfort zone Yeah, is this one of them? um kind of it's like not something I feel like I had to like really Like muster myself up to do it's something that like i've listened or talked like watched a lot of your videos or streams and like uh I like really wanted to like Have a talk with you. So it's like something that I wanted to do It wasn't something that I was like had to like force myself to do. Okay. So now I have another question What did you want to talk to me about why did you want to come on here? um I kind of just I this is it. Uh, I never felt like I needed to talk to someone maybe until I was going through like a huge debate, um in terms of my relationship and then also I guess That was the main thing that it stemmed from um, because I Want to like learn about myself more so that I could kind of have a better idea of like what I want or like Um what I can do for myself this year like stuff like that cool, man That's that's some I feel inspired listening to you. Is that weird? Inspired by what? I know it's it's confusing right? So, um, sorry because i'm probably making you more nervous because here comes the appreciation So get ready like you're about to die ready ready for it Yeah, I mean, so I I think it's really cool that you noticed that your life was not what you wanted it to be and you thought Intentionally about how you can make it different from what it is Like basically what I think is inspiring is that you chose not to live on autopilot Right like for a moment like it's like a minion is on autopilot You're just going to run down like we're just going to live life and just just you know, that's what we're going to do We're not gonna think we're not gonna switch lanes we're not gonna adapt Relationship is relationship. Let's just go And then here's ivan who's kind of like well, maybe I should think about like i'm not sure if this relationship is right for me Like maybe I should move lanes And then like what's the goal like why am I playing this game of life? Like what do I want out of life? Like that's actually pretty cool What do you think about that? Um I think it comes from like what bothers me about other people. I think um something that bothers me is like when I hear someone complaining a lot and they don't do anything to And they don't try to do anything about it Like there are some things that are out of your control but the things that are in your control, I feel like if you could do something to change what you're complaining about then you should or at least like Have the effort to sure, so Yeah, I just wanted to like get help with that. I guess like cool figure myself out Do you view yourself as a complainer? um I can rant but if I complain about something I will try to solve it at least I hope i'm like that like I try I think i'm like that. Yeah. Yeah interesting Um, yeah, I mean so that that sounds like a positive quality like it sounds like that's something that you respect and appreciate about yourself Uh I think so. I never thought of that specifically I just know I don't like that about other people when they do it So I try not to do it, but I may not be i'm not perfect So maybe I still complain and not fix things, you know, yeah, I I don't think anyone thinks you're perfect but um You know at the same time I was just kind of thinking that sometimes what bothers us in other people is what we see in ourselves Like sometimes that's the case do you think that's the case here? um Not so much. I think it's because I do that that it bothers me. Maybe when I see other people not doing that. Okay Um, maybe we can come back to that second. Sorry that I i'm kind of bouncing the conversation around like oh no Good um and so Okay, so you were saying, you know, you were debating about something about your relationship and that's why you wanted to come on I'm just going to try to toss out one more compliment that you can dodge Um, would you would you consider yourself? I mean, so I I think what you're doing is courageous. What do you think? What um, what am I doing like okay talking about it, um Um Yeah, I I would not maybe What's happening in your head let's let's look Oh happening Yeah Uh, there's a party that's dodging and there's a party like no Yeah, it's like it's like yes, but it doesn't feel courageous to me because I don't Uh, I think it may be more so to other people but I guess i'm not as afraid maybe i'm just like, okay Okay, so it's it's not as hard you don't really it's not that you discount your courageousness It's just like actually it's not that hard for you to come on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah exactly. Okay, cool So that doesn't that doesn't feel to me that you're really dodging the compliment or appreciation so much as you just don't really think it's that applicable Yeah Okay, I I can live with that. So maybe we should talk about um, can you tell us what debate you were having about your relationship? Um, so I Just kind of a timeline I guess um, I started dating my first boyfriend when I was like 16 and that relationship lasted like seven years and then Uh, it was like a month or so like not too long afterwards. I got into my next relationship that lasted another almost seven years and um But he was just like really too good to like kind of pass up. Um at the time like I just met him and I was like wow, this person's like Amazing like he's so different from my ex. He was just like um and uh, I guess like the debate I got was this person is like It felt like he did he was like everything I would have wanted in someone um He like said and did all like the right things and what are the right? Um Like He would whenever I was stressed he would always ask me like oh like what can I do to help? Like he like helped me a lot and sounds like he was supportive Mm-hmm. He's like he's super super supportive and almost like anything that I do or yeah, anything that I do and um Uh, he's like really funny and he Um all my anyone that all my friends like really like him there's he just like gets along with everyone and Uh, he's like a really good person and I guess um So for a really long time I never felt like I was really happy and It wasn't you felt like you you were really happy um Being with him is i'm very happy but for myself, it's like I felt like more within this year that um more reoccurring thoughts would happen where I wonder what I would be like if I was on my own because I was in a Relationship since I was 16 pretty much and like i've never gotten the chance to be like independent I don't know what I am like on my own. I've always had someone else there And I felt like such a strong need for independence despite having being with someone who was like so great um Wow so It was like something that it felt like a missing puzzle piece that I would like Never experience or have if I would just stayed with this person forever um, I needed I It was like something that before I kind of brushed off and then it became more and more like in my face as Uh, it like popped up in my thoughts and more and then I felt like I just really needed to know like what it's like To truly be like on my own And how I grow as a person and what when you say it started to become in your face. What does that look like? Um, like I just had more and more thoughts I kept thinking about like I want to like know what it's like Like I would I don't know what it would be what it's like at all For me to be on my own And like having to tackle problems on my own or like how I'd grow as a person I think in like your early years you have a lot of like finding yourself or like exploring or like experiencing things that Um help you grow a lot and I feel like Um when you say early years, what what ages are we talking about just to clarify? I feel like in your early 20s Okay, you have like a lot that of like I guess um things that just Shape who you are as a person and helps you grow so Yeah, yeah So you feel like you kind of missed out on that Um, I guess being in a relationship, I don't know if I Ever like like I just don't know I would just never know what what's what am I like without someone That's just it Yeah, so can I just point out like an interesting kind of connection that my mind is making so earlier I had asked you like You know, you'd said that you're you don't view yourself as resilient As resilient and I asked how do you view yourself and you're like, I don't know And i'm just wondering whether what you're talking about Maybe is part of the reason that you don't know who you are because you've always sort of existed In relation to someone else And you don't know you know In a sense, it's kind of like, you know, you're duo queuing For everything and so the challenge is like if you're duo queuing you never really know like what your Skill is Because you've always got you know, it's like you're never solo queuing. So like And and sure you're gonna hit a particular rank but like how much of that is like you being carried and like You doing the carrying? Mm-hmm. Is that how you feel? um Not too much in terms of like I never felt like I was getting carried by someone in terms of In terms of like relationships um my First boyfriend was just someone that I met while I was in high school and he was my first boyfriend So we ended up dating for a really long time because it's like you're an experience you try to make it work You like it's like a very naive like I really wanted like my first boyfriend to like uh, to be your last boyfriend. Yes, uh type type of thought but then it was kind of like That really wasn't working there's no way like You hit the point where you're like Do I want to be with this person for the rest of my life? And because it's either you break up or you're with them forever, right? So the answer is no you got to get out now and I just just mustered it up and it was like one of the hardest things ever had to do because he was all I knew for like Seven years. I was so attached to his family and we had mutual friends and everything Yeah, so your lives have been kind of entangled together Yeah, but like with my most recent boyfriend, it was like he gave me so much freedom and I um could do like whatever pretty much like uh, he didn't really hold me back from doing anything but it's just like the fact of the matter is that I've just been in a relationship for like the last how many years and I just never got to be on my own but that was a conflicting part because it's like he's so good, but um I I just What it's like it felt like miss timing Yeah, so what is what is the appeal of independence like in your mind? What what was it that you wanted from being? Not with someone. What did you feel? I don't even know if there's like Something that I want in particular. It's more like the not knowing Um what it's like period Like I never got to experience it's like missing on like the experience and like how I could Be as a person or what i'd be on my own interesting Hmm and so so can you are are you still with your boyfriend or is that Uh, no, i'm sorry. No. So how how did that how did that happen? Um It's something we I brought up to him like during christmas and then it kind of like You know, I kind of like brushed it off and I could tell like he didn't want to break up obviously so he also like um tried to like just be like Um but then yeah what oh like kind of like um he was just like uh saying I can't remember what he said to be honest But it's something that along the lines of like I could tell he was trying to just be like yeah But like you know, we're We're good together Sure, right. So it's kind of like that. Um and then Uh, and I agreed, uh, but it was just like a thought that just kept surfacing and there's to the point where like I know that If I stay with him I will think whether it's a year down the line 20 years down the line Twenty like 30 years on the line that like I still would wonder what it would have been like to be on my own and so I didn't want to like Be with him but still have those thoughts. I needed to just know What it's like And so it sounds like you wanted to avoid a life of regret Yes, or yeah pretty much And that you would have regretted staying with him Um I don't know if I would have regretted staying with him, but I would have just regretted like not knowing And not knowing involves not being with him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah um But yeah, I think it's an important distinction that what you actually regret is not knowing what independence feels like Hmm This is tricky if on It's real tricky Yeah, what i'm hearing from you is like it sounds like you understood that you had something that was valuable and good Mm-hmm. That's what made it super hard. And that's why I wanted to talk to someone because it's like He's totally someone that I would see myself with in the end and be happy with but like it just felt like I'm missing Like I just I just needed it Sure, uh of it. And so what what happened next? Um and then uh We tried talking still for a bit to keep in touch and then It's just too hard because like my emotions are too turbulent whenever I get a message from him or um Anything like that it like yeah, so so after christmas you guys kind of broke up or Oh, no, this was um, this was like in Um, we broke up right at the start of june Okay, and and so when you say you broke up, so what how did that go? um It feels bad it feels like i'm kind of being i'm being selfish, um Um, everyone around me feels sad for us Feels super sad like oh a lot of people say they're getting like secondhand depression just from listening to because it feels like we're like uh We love each other so much, but it's like almost like we have to be apart sort of thing So it feels very tragic or like sad sounds tragic Yeah Um, so i've been having a hard time Um, especially the past like couple of weeks to be like happy But like it's been obviously I know it's like a time thing. I know as time goes on like it'll be better but uh, it was just harder those couple of weeks and like um, he messaged me once and then he um came over once to like just give me a cake and then like I I felt so sad It was like the day that I finally felt better and then he came over and then I was like Oh my god, it's like everyone was sad like the people in my house were sad and like Yeah How does it feel like to be someone who takes care of everyone? And then make everyone sad Um It felt like I hated that I was like a negative energy I felt like uh, because I was sad Um, I was like exerting a bunch of like sad Energy and they all told me it was okay, but it felt bad because normally i'm the one who's like I've been I feel like i've been so like Stable kind of throughout all the years like I never felt sad Or depressed i've always been like content and like pretty like relatively Like chill, you know kind of just like go with the flow like Yeah Yeah, um, and this was I guess the time where I felt like I was very I was more negative or more like sad and I don't like exerting that energy At least for too long and two weeks felt long Yeah, so let's ask so let me ask you a couple questions about that So the first is Is that okay? Um I think so because I know it's only temporary I wouldn't want to like be a negative ball of energy for like A long long period of time, but like it feels good now that like knowing after like Two to three weeks like I feel like it's getting better Mm-hmm Okay. Yeah, so next question I have for you is do you think you were selfish? Um I don't think so, but in this case I feel like I am because Um I think it's because I know he doesn't want to break up That I feel like it's a little selfish and that um We could get back together in like a year from now or whatever and it'd be like him waiting or whatever Even though i'm not asking him to and that feels like selfish because I know he'll I kind of feel like he would wait regardless Until he knew like there's no chance Um Yeah, so it feels like selfish in that regard Is that okay Um I think that's okay Unless something bad happens in between or like What do you mean? Yeah Um, I think I don't think it would be okay if I started seeing someone else What do you All right, you just lost me for a second. So so what would not be okay about that because he's waiting for you Um What's because it would hurt him a lot, okay, so you don't think it's Okay, so let me just share a couple of thoughts So first of all, so you gotta you gotta like let me finish Okay, because i'm gonna say some things but sometimes I say some things that sound hurtful, but it's really not my intention So first thing is I think what you did was selfish and I also think that that's completely okay so I think sometimes we forget and and That did I just body you there was that hard to hear? Okay No, so I I think sometimes we forget like so we have this idea of like who we are Right and evon is the person that takes care of other people She's the person who supports other you're the support Right, and then there there are takers and there are givers And sometimes we go through life thinking that we're a giver And so it can be really hard to like be a taker Because that's not who you are And so like it's funny because we kind of say, you know We treat selfishness like a bad thing because in a sense it is bad But I don't think the world is quite that black and white like I think anytime you break up in a relationship Where the other person doesn't want to break up because you're not happy That's selfish And also I think it's fine Right, like as human beings You know, it's it's okay And I think this is a big problem that a lot of people have that like it's okay to you know, put yourself first I don't think you should put yourself first all the time I don't think that you should you know I think you should be careful about I think the most important thing is that you're intentional and aware of when you're putting yourself first and when you're Not putting yourself first The biggest problems i've ever seen in relationships and what are when people are not aware of like When they're being selfish and when they are Selfish and when they're being selfish and when they're being selfish and when they're being selfish That's what tanks a relationship For one person to say hey this doesn't work for me right now and I need to like put myself first I think that's fine And is it going to hurt another person? Yes And that's actually okay, too. I don't think that we can live our lives Controlling I mean there's certainly some things that we can do that can hurt other people But I think some of that is on them and some of that is on us And I'm not saying that you know, you can't hurt another person because you clearly can and and maybe that's when you refer to what's going on right now I think that's what we see Yeah And so i'm not saying that you know you you can't hurt like of course you can hurt another human being but I think You know some of that is like Their investment and their attachment to the relationship is what's going to cause them hurt And and sometimes I think it is okay to end a relationship that your partner is going to hurt It is okay to end a relationship that your partner doesn't want to end because it's not working for you because that's just sort of that's life, right? What do you think about all that That makes sense That sounds a lot better than what was in my head what was in your head Oh, I just felt bad and I felt like I just felt bad Um Because He asked me if like what i'm doing feels fair And it I guess it does feel like it's fair to me, but not him sure And I agree And what i'm saying is that sometimes it's okay to be unfair in a relationship like that's This is the crazy thing is like, you know, we try to be perfect, but I think that like life is muddy, right? When we're playing league of legends, like sometimes you get damaged It's part of the game You know, it's it's like And and is it unfair to him? Absolutely And sometimes I think that that's okay Which is weird because like a lot of times we tie together like we assume that unfairness is unacceptable Which is like a really really interesting nuance And that we feel like everyone has to be fair all the time but in my experience of relationships like relationships are frequently unfair and even the healthiest ones are frequently very unfair And generally speaking we hope that over time that there's fairness over the aggregate But like he's invested a lot in the relationship. It sounds like He's been very supportive. It sounds like he's been a good person. He's been nice to your friends He's he's really supported you and so it kind of feels like he kind of got screwed You know because because you're and i'm not trying to beat you up here But I think I think it's important to call it what it is because like from his perspective He's invested seven years into this relationship and like the hardest thing from his perspective is he's not doing anything wrong Yeah, like it's so easy to or not so easy But it comes way easier to break up with someone and be broken up with if you fucked up in some way Yeah, yeah, but like what the fuck he did everything right? Yeah, and i'm gonna be a little bit hyperbolic here So, you know, let me know if your feelings get hurt, but i'm just gonna You're kind of being neutral and kind of quiet. And so when you're when people are neutral, I tend to show more emotion. Okay So, let me know if you feel judged But he's like what the fuck Yeah, you know like you're breaking up with me when i've supported you for seven years and like you're dumping me because you need independence Like why don't you tell me when you were 24 so I could have moved on with my life, you know Like that's how he feels and that's a fair way to feel And just because he feels like it's unfair doesn't mean that you can't break up with him Yeah, I agree Just one of those things that feels bad, but you know, it is what it is. Yeah, do people Yeah, so you seem like okay with this Wow, that's impressive What Oh, but uh, oh is is it Yeah, I think it's really hard to so I I think a lot of people feel Um, a lot of people have trouble tolerating the idea that they did something that was unfair to another person And they actually do all kinds of mental gymnastics to convince themselves that it was fair That's what I think is really impressive because i've talked to a lot of people who who are in your situation and Find some way to make it fair right, they come up with all these reasons of things that like maybe your boyfriend did or didn't do or like You know, they like rationalize things or they justify things but I think genuinely I I really respect what you're saying Which is that yeah, it kind of sucks for him, but I had to do it because I had to do it Which sort of sounds cold, but I think that it's actually incredibly authentic And it's better to be honest with yourself and know that you did something that like hurt another human being Then pretend that you did it That's I felt more like also i'd be dishonest with him if I stayed with him and felt that way yeah so, you know the other way to look at it is You told him it like so on the one hand you maybe could have told him a little bit earlier But you know, I think you told him when you did because that's when you started to feel this way It was more like a lot strongly about it. Yeah on the other hand, you know, I think it is good that you know You didn't just squash those feelings and then Go another seven years Yeah Because i've i've seen those relationships too where you know, then it usually ends in divorce And and um, yeah, so Okay, so I feel like we kind of covered that I have a couple of other different thoughts any any thoughts questions reflections Uh, no, that was good. Okay. Was that helpful? Yeah, it was really helpful How can I go for a bathroom big? Yes, absolutely Thank you Foster check Wait, how am I saying hi to myself? Dr. Keishigawa maybe Seems uncomfortable for the headrest, but maybe it isn't So So what should we do chat should we go philosophical should we talk about current events or should we talk about The imposter syndrome Okay, sorry i'm back welcome So I have a couple of questions for you ivan Okay, so, um, I sort of feel like we're done talking about that thing. You seem to be actually pretty level-headed about it I'm not getting like a whole lot of like unresolved piles of you know emotion So a couple of other thoughts, I mean does that feel okay to you? I mean you're nodding but okay. Yeah Um, how's your nervousness by the way? Uh better now, yeah, I can tell yeah. Um, so a couple of interesting So a couple of directions so we can talk about what's going on now We can talk about imposter syndrome and where you kind of get the idea that you know Why you dodge when people try to appreciate you because you didn't dodge at all right now by the way. I don't know if you Kind of noticed that but like you weren't like dodging or no cognitive biases or anything like that. At least not that I could pick up Um, so either you're outplaying me or they're not there I think it's just in certain areas like maybe not in all aspects of life But in that aspect I do feel that way. Yeah, so I would agree with that So we can talk about kind of what's going on right now how that's stressful where you get your idea of like who you are Um, we can also dig into a little bit more about that sort of like thirst for independence and where that comes from I think those like those are kind of deeper discussions. The other interesting thing. This is a little bit philosophical a little bit yogic but You know it was And so this may be a little bit less personal. I don't know how helpful this is going to be but I find it interesting Is the idea of living a life without regrets, right? So like when you're faced with a choice in life and you say this is good But if I do this then I may regret something like how do you know? When to change And how do you know when to conquer? So you're essentially giving in to your fear of regret By making a change in your relationship you see that Mm-hmm. So when do you conquer the fear of regret and when do you give in to the fear of regret? And I don't think that one is necessarily better than the other because sometimes giving into the fear of regret is exactly what you need Like that's how you make good choices and other times. It's how you make terrible choices Yeah, right so like if i'm in like my mid 40s and I have a midlife crisis and I think about all of the things I feel tied down with a mortgage and paying college funds and stuff like that and I think about you know, I wanted to get a You know like a motorcycle and like drive across Asia And then I like that regret and i'm like fuck that i'm gonna divorce I'm gonna go because I have to like do this for myself. Otherwise i'll die on my deathbed and i'll have regrets So when is it the right choice? To give in to the fear of regret and when it is when is it the wrong choice? I don't even know how to begin that discussion, but I think it's a really interesting conundrum Right, like is it because there is a road in which You can essentially let go Of your fear of what could have been And stick with what you have Yeah, um and it's just a interesting kind of conundrum that I was noticing that you know You were facing it and we sort of have this idea that like You gotta do you but I I don't know if that's always true because sometimes that just turns you into an asshole Yeah, I think it really depends on what it is because I think like in my case it's like Uh, it would be also unfair to him And it's like something that I didn't just like randomly thought of and on a whim It's like something that's been recurring and I felt like it was fairly important and Somewhat reasonable to do. So I think it feels like very extreme. You'd have to definitely Be way more careful about that Yeah, so I agree with you 100% And also having talked to some 45 year olds, they also think about it a lot. Sometimes they think about it for years And they feel like it is unfair to their partner as well To be in a marriage where you're not happy So I think sometimes they they think the same things even though i'm painting a picture that's like far more Reason, I mean far less reasonable Sometimes those people feel the same way and I think it's an interesting question to figure out like, you know, how do you know what's When what's right what's wrong? But anyway, yeah So what what do you want to talk about because I think we still have a little bit of time You want to talk about what's going on right now you want to talk about a little bit more about imposter syndrome Where independence where the need for independence comes from Why why you get pissed off when people complain and do nothing about it Uh, I think we could talk about what's going on right now. Yeah, so tell me what's going on right now Um, so right now there's a lot of the Sexual harassment and sexual assault stuff going around uh on social media and I guess uh There's like some things that I minimized a lot before That are starting to what feels like blow up in my face now And um when I was in those situations, I guess Both times I just like froze at certain points and like I don't know why I do that or like how to prevent that or like What do you mean by those situations where you froze what does that mean? Um in which like the Sexual harassment or assault or yeah happened to you Oh shit That's awful Have you talked about this like have you because I know a lot of people are like posting stuff publicly Have you mentioned any of this to people before? Uh, no, I haven't um, but i've talked to my friends about it Okay, so the first question I mean this question genuinely. I understand that we sort of said we're going to talk about this but I I would really Think about whether you're To what degree you're comfortable disclosing stuff like here and now because I definitely don't want to ask you things that You're not comfortable saying Mm-hmm um So let's just think about that for a second because I'm you know, my next question is going to be like what happened Yeah, and but I I want to just make sure I don't want you to feel I want to acknowledge that you may feel pressure to answer that question and at the same time I want to give you the space to not answer it And also not judge you for like not speaking because you're not ready Uh I think i'm okay with like explaining scenarios and like circumstances and how I feel and stuff But I don't want to like name people Okay, that's the only thing Okay, I completely understand and respect that and but I I want to just I think it's important if it's okay with you for us to also talk about what makes you uncomfortable naming people Not that you have to name the people but can we explore the feeling of hesitation about naming people? Yeah, okay Some of it. Yeah, great. I'm just asking for whatever you feel comfortable with there Because and and now I want you to step out of this discussion And talk to me. We're not talking about this now. We're just step out of it. We're going to go meta for a second So ivan, I I want us to think a little bit about our opportunities in this conversation So You're going to have personal feelings fine. It can be hard for you. Fine There can be all kinds of consequences of this conversation The reason that i'm particularly interested and would like permission to explore your feelings to not name names and explore the boundary Because you drew a line in the sand Right. You said i'm okay talking about all this shit, but i'm not okay talking about this And I think that line in the sand Is something that many many people experience and is part of what's responsible for what we're the situation Yeah, does that make sense to you? Yeah, so I think i'm not asking you to name names. I'm really not Yeah at the same time. I think it's very very important For everyone to understand when someone is a victim of some kind or the receiver of sexual harassment or assault Like what is going on that keeps that like you don't want to say something Right. In fact, you actively don't want to And like what's up with that because that's something that I think we need to understand. I'm not saying you should change Some people may say that you should change but i'm not it's not my place Yeah, um So, okay. Cool. Can we talk we get all right. So what happened? Um Uh The first time was at uh At a club for a friend's birthday, and then he got a table and then um, how old were you by This was in 2018, okay I was Okay, so a couple years ago Yeah, okay Couple years ago and then Uh It was next to a table of some people that I knew Uh from esports and uh, they weren't people that I met before I just knew them because I because I see them on lcs and stuff and then uh One of the guys was like talking to me because he recognized me from one of our parties And then he was just like, oh like you're Like yvonne from offline tv and like stuff like that and then he like struck up a conversation and then he also Like he asked me like what ethnicity I was and I said, oh i'm like chinese and then uh, he like talked to the other people that were there too and he uh Asked them like the same thing kind of here and there Uh similar conversation and then like yeah, I thought he was like being pretty friendly But just like talking wise like there wasn't anything crazy And he was like pretty drunk and then we walked out of the club and then he Like said to someone beside him who was like there uh, he was just like How do I say I want to fuck you in chinese? and And then later, um We I try to get into an uber to go to my friend's house. We're all in like a van Because a bunch of us are going together and then um He's So my boyfriend at the time is we're it's us in the backseat my boyfriend that guy and me And then the guy sitting in the middle Yeah, I don't know why he was sitting in the middle. It's just when we got into like sure I don't even know why he came with us to be honest He just saw maybe where I was going and so he followed i'm not sure but um He was just in the in between us. I don't think he he didn't know we were dating I think because it was just like um, yeah and then uh In the van like I was wearing like a crop top and like a skirt and He liked It's like a it's like a t-shirt is usually pretty long a crop top is kind of like cropped in the middle. Okay So when you're sitting down it could like go up a little bit like you can yeah, um It's like a bitch. It's just a short t-shirt And then so like is your is your belly button showing in the crop top? No, no, not even it goes past that Okay, um and then uh He has some I I don't remember how but I just remember like he had his hand like Under my crop top like on my skin and I felt super uncomfortable like his arm around me like touching me there and then I Gra- I remember I was like I have to like stop this and then I like grabbed his hand I grabbed his hand and I put it over my head Back to where he was or back to just you know on his side. This is my side and like I put it back on his side and then um And then somehow he had his hand on my ass and then I just froze Like he basically went back and had his hand on my ass and I just froze all the way around Or or from his side All the way around like like around like this. Yep, and then I just like froze and I just couldn't Do anything the rest of it because I felt like I already like through his hand away and he did it again And I didn't know what to do and then um Yeah, and yeah, that's and then we got back to My friend's place and then I think he saw there's like a ton of people there and he just left afterwards And then later on that week like a couple days later he like dm'd me on twitter And he's like, hey, I don't remember like anything from that night. I just remember meeting you And that was it and I didn't reply Can I digest for a moment yeah Man so fucking creepy. Oh my god. That was the first one Like that just had to I had to get that out out there. Yeah So creepy I can't i'm just So creepy I can't i'm just And so you said that he talked Okay, i'm just I I don't even know what to say. I don't know if I should ask you questions or just hear the second one And then I don't know. What do you think? Um I honestly i'm not sure but like you you can do whichever you feel like could work best I I'm gonna need your help because I have no like how the fuck am I supposed to know what's supposed to work best? Oh, I don't know either Okay uh Um, let me give you two options you tell me which one you think will work So one thing that we can do is we can just hear the second story and then like try to find themes or common things Or we can like tunnel down into this one first Okay, um, what do you think? Like Okay, maybe second one and then find like the common theme I think I just want to like yeah, um Second one is uh Someone who is like a really good friend of mine who I like trusted a lot and And Oh my god every story is the i'm drunk story, but he was drunk he came he he just uh, he was out drinking And uh I was like in my room in my bed and then he came in And he Do you guys live together? Uh, no, okay Yeah, um, how does he get into your house? Uh He was just he just can or okay. Yeah, just a good friend and um he came in and uh Laid down next to me and uh Uh Felt it was fine. That wasn't anything weird and then he grabbed my hand and like held it and I froze but I was like maybe he's just like drunk and like wants To just chill or something? um, and then he like started Brushing my hand against his face and then he like kissed it and then And then he also like went into like my sleeve like my t-shirt sleeve and then like Basically just An air just it was weird. Like it was like an area. I was uncomfortable with and then I just like froze And like I didn't know what to do And then 10 minutes later And then he like stopped and then he like it looked like he like went he like fell asleep or something and then 10 minutes There he's like Whoa, how'd I get here? And I was like, you don't remember anything and he's like no And I I was like Okay, um And I thought like he just you know Was that just He was just drunk and maybe he blacked out and he forgot. I don't know and then um I asked him the next day. I was like, do you like so do you remember what happened last night and he's just like No and I was like Okay, um, but I just kind of brushed it off I guess and then A month later Or like I don't even know if it was a month later or a couple weeks later, but like Something he came in again again when he was drunk And then uh Apologized for what he did. He said he knew he was like overstepping or something and that it was like yeah Uh So he remembered when he was drunk again, but he didn't remember when I asked him he was sober the next day That time so what do you think about that? I feel like he remembers and he just lied that he forgot what happened last night or the other night Why would someone do that? Why would someone lie about remembering So he doesn't have to be as responsible for what he did Can you think of any other reasons Want us to dodge responsibility absolutely one of the biggest reasons that people lie Yeah Um, i'm not really sure What the other could be right now But he apologized and then 10 minutes later he did the exact same thing almost so Just minus the t-shirt part I gotta say the t-shirt's fucking weird, man. It is weird. Yes is yes. It's weird I don't even I mean, i've heard a lot of weird shit in my day And it's it's so interesting how When we think about violation we think about certain body parts but holy shit the t-shirt sounds so creepy It is there's like an uncomfortable place like it's a weird place to like touch people It's like when you think about like boundaries and violations like we generally think about like genitals Yeah Or even the face but like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like Genitals Yeah Or even the face but like the t-shirt is just I mean it it sounds I mean it Sorry if i'm talking too much about this or this is making you uncomfortable. It's just hearing your story has made me really appreciate how Violation doesn't have to do with genitals, right? There's something about the experience of like boundaries and space and lines and crossing lines that is not just You know like there's a certain essence to it It's like a place that no one normally touches. It was like right on the side here That's like next To you know, and it's like yeah, it feels very like private still or like it's just not somewhat somewhere I want my good friend to be touching me. That's weird. Yeah like I don't know. Uh And and like he just pretended like he forgot about the whole thing, how does that make you feel I minimized it a lot Because I would still see him around so I basically tried to just Act like it never happened. So see that's interesting the language there is interesting I traveled To act like it never happened So what i'm hearing from you is there's actually like a part of your mind that is actively suppressing What happened Yeah, and I did that for a very long time, how do you understand that part of you? Um I didn't I think until recently when I started reading everything And I realized how much I minimized it and it's to the point where it's very hard for me to ignore now Right. So what i'm asking you is why Does a mind so now we're gonna go meta again. Okay like so like let me just So actually first, let me ask you so after sharing this stuff or saying it out loud. Do you have any thoughts or feelings that come up? Like how do you feel after sharing this? I feel like upset that he was able to get away with it Um That People who just People don't see him that way and like It just sucks people don't see him that way And so what how does that shape what you do? I don't really know it just Yeah so let's Look at that So when people don't see someone a particular way What i'm hearing from you is that it makes it harder for you to run against the grain Right if everyone's thinking one way it's hard to speak up Um, I feel differently from that and I can't really explain it um Yeah, it's just not something can Yeah, so ivan I I really am gonna Press you here if that's okay because I think it's very important for everyone out there listening to understand why it's hard for you to speak Mm-hmm, right? So like i'm hearing a theme here, which is that like you kind of made Like there were lots of points where You could have said something and you didn't and i'm not blaming you for that I'm just saying that I think it's a testament to like the pressure that you feel in those moments Does that make sense? Mm-hmm It's like really really hard to speak And the question is why? Right. So like when when a dude so first of all, so it sounds like he asked someone else How do you say I want to fuck or something in chinese, right? Or no, he said I want to tell you How do you say I want to fuck you in chinese and he wasn't talking to you? He was talking to someone else Yeah, man, or woman? Okay, so like you're pretty sure it was directed towards you which You know when he climbs into the car and starts putting his hand on your ass we can sort of put two and two together Yeah, and And so, you know, i'm just i'm kind of envisioning because you use this this phrase you say you use the word froze Mm-hmm, and i'd really like to understand You know as best as you can and I understand it's hard because like we don't talk about this stuff and like this is the problem Right is people don't know so if we think about like what we do on this stream We help people put words to things that they don't understand And by one person putting words to it, it helps everyone else recognize. Oh shit. That's what i'm feeling And I haven't been able to put words to it And and if it's okay with you and it's not you know, like you you draw the line wherever you want to or you know You call it quits whenever you're ready to and I really i'm not trying to I won't judge you for that at the same time. I do feel like It's very important for people to at least understand How you feel about it? and I find myself because if I think I think if we want to fix this We have to help people understand like how you freeze Because it's it's shocking to me that something like this can happen and by shocking it once again I don't blame you for it But I think it's just it speaks to how big of a problem This is that you can be in a car with your boyfriend And a dude can be like feeling you up There's a lot of stuff here that just boggles my mind like you know when when your friend comes in and lays down next to you In bed, like is that something that happened like is that? Normal within the range of how you interact with people and i'm not trying to paint you in a bathroom. Just yeah And and so so, you know like how does this happen? And and so so, you know, like how does how does a situation arise where like he thinks that that's acceptable? And furthermore when he's laying in bed, like what makes it hard for you? I don't want to say what makes it hard for you to tell him to leave but because I heard your language it was sort of like well Maybe it's just this like there's a part of your mind That is telling you that this is not okay And what i'm also hearing you is there's a part of your mind that is trying to Like be the mafia and like shut up the part of your mind that's telling you it's not okay That's almost how it sounds to me. Does that make sense? Yeah Like you tried really hard to minimize it It's almost like the secret police is like showing up at your door and telling the part of your mind. It's like Hey, this is fucked up. They're like shh. Don't say anything And Even now that I mean i'm guessing that that's still there because you even said I don't want to name names So I want you to like look within yourself and try to think is there a part of you that's saying And i'm sorry that this is hurting you. I really I really am that's but like You know I think it it scares the shit out of me that there's like some part of you that like keeps you from speaking And i'm not saying you're dumb and i'm not saying it's bad i'm saying like that's the reality that we face What we're seeing is like the actual struggle like this is why people stay silent Because something within you is telling you evon whatever you do do not open your mouth Like do you see that Yeah, what is that? Yeah How would you feel about yourself if you did open your mouth And let me know if we gotta stop Oh, it's okay Um I just can't I guess it's not just me there's like it just affects a lot of things so I can't say anything I I'm gonna think about that. You can keep going if you want to I'm just letting you know that I think there's a lot there and i'm gonna do my best To pull as much out of that statement as I can because I recognize that this is painful for you in some way Okay, so i'm gonna try to make every word count if that makes sense What are the consequences that you're afraid of Up Everything that happens after what what is your mind envision will happen after After Things will just be very scary what will be scary Uh I think it It's just there's a lot that comes with it so I can like it's like hard for me to say anything Okay I it's weird. So I I found myself smiling there for a second because you remember earlier when I was like thinking you're a courageous person Mm-hmm. I I think I think twice as much now Or 10 times as much I thought you were gonna say opposite Yeah, i'm not surprised Because how do you feel? Um The same I just feel like I guess you just emphasized it a lot more they're like I really can't say anything And that feeling just really sucks What sucks about that feeling? Um The under different circumstances or a lot of other things that I have to consider, um, I would say something So I'm wondering if we should just stop this conversation because I don't want this to damage you in any way shape or form What do you think Um, I don't think it's damaging I think i'm just like I just don't Want people to know Okay, so if people knew How would you What would happen that you're afraid of? What would you what what would you they think about you? I don't think it'd be any Thing too, I don't I just think chaos the world burned down and like That's just it. That's just how I see it Yeah Yeah Well, I mean on the one hand it sort of makes sense because I can imagine why you would want to stay silent I can imagine why you would want to stay silent if the alternative is is burning the world down Yeah Right. I I think for me evon it's incredibly confusing. So I tend to be like a pretty good judge of I can like read people's minds kind of And even then I mean I can you know, I can take a stab at it But to me it's a little bit confusing about You know, what what is it that you're afraid of? Like and the other the other interesting thing is that I wonder if it's actually fear that's keeping your mouth that I am beginning to realize it's not fear I think what you're trying to do is preserve and protect What do you think Yeah, I agree there's evon Support player Protecting Protecting taking it for the team and boy, did you take it this time? Who are you protecting I'm not asking you to name those people. I mean in general like, you know, just to be clear What does it feel like you're protecting Uh a lot of things How are you feeling right now Okay Um This may sound kind of weird but I have faith in you I don't know exactly for what but i'm in your corner And um Yeah, I hope you didn't dodge that one Did you dodge that okay good You've got so many debuffs right now you can't dodge anything It's true. I'll just take anything at this point. Yeah, so I I mean I think you're a good person And oddly enough evon so i'm gonna talk a little bit because I think it may help you feel like like less in your head Which maybe is bad. Maybe it's good, but i'm gonna do it because I feel like I gotta I gotta taunt. Okay, so i'm gonna tank and i'm gonna You want to keep go should I stay silent? No, no, no, you can go. Okay You want to explore your feelings right now or you want me to take the camera off of you? um No, you can go. Okay so oddly enough, I think this is making a lot more sense to me because I think that How can I say this So I tend to be an optimist And when I think about you know what people make sacrifices for I tend to think that they make sacrifices and ultimately like the biggest sacrifice that you're making is yourself here Right. Can we sort of see that? You're like you're paying the price for something We don't really know exactly what it is. You're protecting a lot of things You're protecting the world from coming down with your silence You're protecting the world from coming down with your silence And like this is your cross to bear There's this idea that like we can protect the world with our suffering And that's what I see you doing And the interesting thing the interesting assumption here is that people think that women stay silent or not just women but men too just victims Stay silent out of negative emotions And to me that's never really like fit perfectly because like fear is a powerful motivator but For the amount of suffering that people put themselves through and feel and carry and don't let go because people hold on to it, right? It actually makes far more sense to me that there's actually like a noble reason in your mind that allows you to put yourself through this Like protection and being a support and taking care of others And maintaining stability are like the reasons that we put up with shit like that actually makes way more sense to me And that's not something that I had really ever understood or appreciated until we had this conversation Everyone just assumes that it's like fear Right, but I think it's all kinds of like other stuff and I'm not getting it From you quite yet, but I really wonder if it's down there like sometimes You know the reason that some women stay silent in the car is because when he touches you In a weird way your mind thinks that if your boyfriend knew he would break up with you What do you think about that That wasn't the case for me, yeah, i'm not getting that from you I think it's actually quite i'm happy that you're not doing that because sometimes women blame themselves For being victims I kind of did a little bit in the sense of like Because my boyfriend did ask me like why didn't I say anything at the time because he was right there or he asked or like I didn't tell him until the guy left our friend's place and I said like I don't know. I just like froze and I couldn't say anything at the time when That's just how I explained it and I guess like I don't I didn't blame myself because I didn't want to be in that situation in the first place and he put me there So it's like how I react Isn't Why am I to blame for how I reacted when I did try to like move him away And like I didn't even want to be put in that situation in the first place And you don't blame yourself That's rare It's also Hard to not blame yourself Because a lot of times people do blame themselves Do you blame yourself for not saying no more forcefully? I feel like I tried but it's like I was put in a situation that I didn't expect at all. So I didn't know what to do And it's like thinking on your feet, but your brain's not really working Because you're like trying to process what's going on so Yeah, I just think that It's not my fault That he just literally couldn't keep his hands to himself Yeah, I think there's something really important there, too So a lot of people when they look at a story like this They say that you could have said no at any point They say that you could have said no at any point Right, you could have told your friend that what the fuck are you doing in my bed? You could have said hey like don't touch me. I have a boyfriend and he's sitting right over there go fuck yourself You know, there are a lot of people who will say that and it they're not wrong Right. You could have said no Um And at the same time, I don't think that people really understand or appreciate Even women will say this about other women by the way I don't think they understand or appreciate the physiological response That happens when something like this happens And how like your mental goes boom Like you're just not thinking clearly Like it's there's some there are forces within you that keep you from speaking And we don't really understand that or appreciate that and the weird thing is it's kind of interesting because you say that you weren't prepared for the situation I think therein actually lies half the problem And what i'm really like grateful honestly, ivan from the bottom of my heart as a As a father of like two daughters. I'm like really grateful for you that you're like saying this because this is how people get prepared Right is like someone like you have to know that it can happen before it actually happens Yeah And a lot of times like like the problem is that no one knows that the shit can happen. It's like everyone just assumes Because as you put it, he's a friendly guy And the other guy has been a friend of yours for a long time And so we're not prepared And like it's hard to say no in the moment And I think the next thing so this is like how do you feel right now by the way I feel better. Okay. Yeah, so I've tanked so now Now we have an interesting question, right? So like we got to figure out. Can we keep going or is this enough for today? and if you can keep going I'm gonna drop aggro And put it back on you, but only if you're ready Yeah, i'm ready. Okay. So now I think we've got to talk about like why i'm not once i've been ready Why i'm not once again, i'm not trying to pressure you into speaking or anything like that So, please understand that but I do think it's important very important for people to understand why you can talk about the general general and you yourself Why you can talk about the generalities of the situation without naming names? Right, so you like what is it that keeps you from speaking fine like your your you know, your mind isn't wasn't functioning back Then there's like a physiological stress response There's actually um, you know, there's a and just so people know Have you ever heard of something called catatonia No, okay Okay, so i'll just tell i'll show you guys a paper later So there's a there's a mammalian survival response, which is to freeze and play dead So it's like some people call it playing possum So you like you know when some animals are attacked they just like literally freeze There's a psychiatric condition called catatonia, which is fascinating to see But it's like when people become like literally stuck And and like they can't speak they can't move they're like sitting there just with their eyes open and they're like minimally responsive to stimuli And so people have hypothesized that so catatonia is like actually something that happens to people Sometimes with like schizophrenia and they can have different kinds of conditions And so there's actually like a neurological response that causes you to lock up and not move It's like your biology is just sort of playing dead and that state is called catatonia and later on when you guys get professor Dr. K then or professor k or whatever i'll show you guys papers and physiology and stuff like that But I think what happened to you when people blame you for not speaking and when people when when people say Oh, you could have said no at any time and when even people say like oh you should have said something just say something People need to understand that there's actually like physiological evidence that shows that when human beings are in danger literally what they do is lock up It's not like a psychological lock up. It's like a neurological lock up. It's fucking weird Yeah, um I don't know. I don't even know what I was talking about there. But oh, yeah, so So what I was saying is that you know the the reason that you didn't speak back then is because of maybe a catatonic response Fine. It was a survival response. You froze the reason that you're not speaking now I suspect is different because you are walking and talking Right. It's not the catatonic response. It's something else. So i'd really like to understand what that is Can we talk about that Uh, okay. Okay. Thank you I appreciate that And once again, you know you get to pull the plug at any point ivan Um, and I may pull the plug if I think you know I'm going to try to pull the plug for you if I think that you go into a catatonic space and you can't pull the plug yourself Okay so What is it that makes it hard for you to name names? Um, there's a lot of implications that come along with it What kind of implications implications for you implications for them implications for mutual people It feels like the whole world Okay, so let's stop and think about that for a second When I tell you ivan that i'm afraid of doing something because it has implications for the whole world How would you interpret that? What would you think about me I'm not sure Um, I mean it depends like what i'm asking you why you're not like what you're not sharing and stuff but Yeah So there's certain things like you said before that I want to protect and so I can't You said before that I want to protect and so I can't Okay, can you tell us So my first thought is that when someone feels like it has implications from the whole world That sounds like a emotional thought as opposed to a logical thought. What do you think about that? I agree So what is the emotion that is keeping you from speaking? Is it fear? Is it shame? Is it anger? Is it love? I think it's love Yeah, I mean that makes so much more i've never realized this until today but like it makes so much sense You know And and I think And this is such a hard conversation to have because how do I How do we understand this more without compromising what your goals are, which I want to respect at all costs Because the question that I want to ask is like Who do you love that you're trying to protect but I think that that's the question that you don't want to answer So I can't ask that question But I feel like that's the important question you with me Let me think about this Why do you feel responsible for protecting the ones that you love? Because I want to You This may be the final boss by the way, you may be the raid boss people have been looking for the raid boss for a long time Yeah I'm just trying to really think about Okay, let me put it to you this way the people that you're trying to protect What do you think they would say? about You speaking If that was ultimately what I wanted to do You I think they would support me 100% Okay But Okay, so that's a that's an interesting statement so we're going to unpack that a little bit But like it's kind of interesting because you're saying if that's what I really wanted to do. They would support me but if you're If you're But you're not doing it for yourself you're doing it for them Yeah, right so so but like so like what you're saying sort of doesn't make sense to me is because it's kind of like You know if I want to I feel like baking a cake or i'm gonna bake a cake And i'm gonna bake it for them. So i'm gonna put in all this time and effort for their sake i'm gonna suffer and stay silent for them and then if I go to the person I say like hey like I want to bake this cake for you and they're like, but I don't want the cake like you should do whatever you want to Like if you want the cake go for it You know, so so it's weird because you're making a sacrifice for on their behalf But like i'm not so sure that they want you to make that sacrifice. Do you think they want you to make that sacrifice? Do you think they would want you to be silent Yeah Would they have they would want me to be silent I think they Would always want what's like best for me or like they would want me to be happy It's just also a part of what I wanted to Uh, it's a part of what you so you want to say silent Right now yeah, yeah, okay And and that's out of primarily you still think love or do you think that there's some other stuff going on there? I think it's still that Okay, and um Okay, so I think if you want to stay silent then I think maybe we've done enough for today. What do you think? Yeah, does that sound good to you? Okay. So one last question Um, and then I should teach you meditation, but boy is it hard to teach meditation after this So do you Do you feel So I I know that you don't want to name names fine Do you feel comfortable saying who it is that you love and for whom you're choosing to stay silent or is that too much? Because I can't I don't I don't know if that's the same people Oh Right. Um, just think in general. There's like not a lot. I want to say in regards to that. Okay cool I wish I could because I feel like you have a lot of people but no just maybe not right now Just maybe not right now. Don't don't worry about it, man. I I really don't want you to worry about that So I I think that let me put it this way. Yvonne You don't have to help everyone You just do what you can do And if half of the world or a quarter of the world or 10 percent of the world does what you've done today We're gonna be fine You don't need to lift for all of us you don't have to be adc for the whole fucking every league game out there We just need like 20 percent of people to be adcs Right, like literally like it's a beautiful analogy. Everything can be learned from League of Legends And so you've carried plenty for today and you don't need to keep carrying You know, you don't need to carry for other people. I think you've done like that's what that's what aoe healing is about It's like each person comes on and like does their part and then Some other noob will come on and they'll start carrying Yeah true How you feeling right now? uh Yeah, uh a little shaken up i'm getting i'm good. Yeah. I mean I should hope you're a little bit shaken up. I fucking should Yeah Yeah, I mean I think I mean a little bit more than you bargained for, huh? Yeah, definitely. I didn't expect a lot of it. I thought it was gonna be like Yeah, but it was good. It was good. Yeah. I mean for what it's worth way more than what I bargained for Yeah You know, I thought we were just going to be talking about imposter syndrome because that shit I know yeah and you know low self-esteem and all this other stuff and It just feels like talk for So long about other things but yeah, that was Um, you know no pressure in terms of meditation and I don't even know what I would teach Mm-hmm today. I mean I feel like after after sessions like today I don't really tell like I think probably the best thing to do is for you to just Sit and process and don't try to force your mind to do anything Um, if you have an animal Or a cup of tea or something tasty or sunlight or water. I think you should go and be with those things And just let yourself shed Because you've been like kind of wrung out Right. Does that you feel that way? A little bit. Yeah Yeah So you got to just let yourself like you know when I when I twist something and I wring it out it has a natural Tendency to like want to come back to its former shape That's what your meditation should be Let yourself return to the person that you are. That's like kind of in your comfortable neutral state If you have children, I would say that you should kiss them and cuddle them. That's what I'm saying That's what I'm gonna do after we're done with this Yeah I'm going to hold my daughters and possibly I mean, this is gonna sound like a bad joke but touch them in places that they don't want to be touched Like I'm gonna kiss their belly button and cuddle their cheeks And things like that. It's a side note. I can tell you so my wife told me can I tell you a story? Sure. So my wife actually taught me a really important lesson. So when my eldest daughter was two she's like four now Um, I was trying to convince her to give me a kiss Right because that's what we do and that she was like, you know, you should be careful about What you teach her about like Cajoling affection when she doesn't want to give it Mm-hmm And like what am I signaling to her in terms of like how do you respond when someone wants you to do something that you? Don't feel like doing fucking blew my mind Yeah, that's crazy. That makes I never even thought of it that way. Yeah, I never thought of it that way either But now I just I totally like respect their boundaries, which is like, you know Can daddy have a kiss if she says no and then i'll beg and plead a little bit But then i'll be like, okay. Can I give you a kiss? And she'll be like, okay But it's really interesting how a lot of this stuff is baked in right? I think that Teaching her that she's allowed to say no when it comes to physical affection is like apparently something that you start learning when you're two And it really makes me think long and hard about like why you couldn't say no then And what the programming in your brain was that started when like literally you were two years old or when you're you're a year old And so it was kind of eye-opening. It's interesting to have daughters and be a man You learn a lot I bet yeah But uh, it's a very good thing. I feel like you empathize a lot And think a lot from their shoes Yeah, I I hope so I feel like most of the time I just don't understand them. They're just completely different creatures Yeah, sometimes it could be like that. Yeah. Yeah so Well, ivan listen, thank you very much for coming on today and I think really strong work like that's I mean you fucking carried this shit Yeah, thank you so much for having me. It was uh, it was Really really nice and really helpful That boggles my mind. I mean, I feel like we just You know You look like you just ran a marathon Yeah, and I don't usually expect people to say thank you after that But I mean for what it's worth, you're welcome. Hopefully it helps you. Hopefully it helps other people I feel really grateful because I feel like hopefully we understand a little bit more about like You know this whole situation which I think is far more complicated than people give it credit for Mm-hmm so And and good for you for you know striving for independence and living a life without regrets Thank you Hopefully it works out that way. I certainly hope so, too Yeah, it sounds like your your most recent ex-boyfriend was a really solid guy some ass respect to him Yes Cool Take care Thank you Oh fuck chat Jesus Oh man chat i'm so wound You guys really want me to meditate now, I can't meditate man