 Hmm Oh Hmm Oh Oh All righty chat let's get started Welcome to another healthy gamer GG stream. My name is all Okanoja Just a reminder that although I am a psychiatrist nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only Holds especially true today because we are talking to the one the only the destiny About stimulants, I think I think he's got some questions about stuff so we'll kind of hop in with him in a minute and You know, I think that What we're gonna be talking about today. We'll talk to him a little bit more and just make sure we're all on the same pages I think there's a lot of like Information about stimulant use and what to expect and how to think about it When I teach like psychiatry residents and medical students about the subject which it's been a little while since I've done that But there's just a lot of consideration So I think it's totally fine to share, you know that kind of information But we will not be dispensing any medical advice and if you all have a concern or question and you think that something we're talking About is relevant to you and hopefully we'll explain this over the course of you know, our conversation with destiny Please go see a licensed professional because it's absolutely true that You know as I hopefully will demonstrate like I think it's a very individual choice that depends on what's kind of right for you and Figuring out what's right for you Usually involves talking to a medical professional because they may have all kinds of questions that people don't really think about When they're sort of like learning about medication, especially stimulants, so we'll share some of those considerations But I really think it's important to have some solid back and forth and have someone who knows you well Understands what your goals are So that you can make the right choice or they can make they can help you make the right choice for what's what's good for y'all Anyway, so a couple of quick announcements before we hop into Our call with destiny so We're gonna be talking I assume today about ADHD So if y'all are interested in more info on that we have a whole guide to ADHD for people who are interested in more in-depth information and so if y'all are interested in understanding a little bit more about the clinical perspective and the guides are sort of designed to be They kind of mirror what? The information that I share with people that I work with so sort of like what's some of the clinical fundamentals? It's not a substitute for medical treatment But the guide to ADHD and doing stuff also has a lot of like really strong techniques around Helping yourself organize helping to train your mind to focus and concentrate. So if y'all are interested check that out We actually do have some coaching spots available for like the first time in a while So if y'all are interested in getting support around figuring out You know what you're trying to do in life how to overcome challenges and make progress definitely check out coaching I See we have a question. Hey, dr. K. Why do you always take the side of women? You were doing it all day yesterday. I Think I take the side of humans and what I'm curious about is like if we're saying take the side of women Who's on the opposite side? Right, that's what I'm I'm Confused about so like who's on the opposite side. So if we take the side of women who's who's on the opposite side Seriously Like I'm curious Right cuz like even that statement implies a certain antagonism, right that there's someone I mean I think like I'm on the side of humans and I think when it comes to gender dynamics, like it's complicated and You know everyone in this world every single person in this world suffers for a different reason and my my goal is to try to Have compassion for everybody. I'm not saying that I'm gonna do it Right because I'm human and at some point someone's gonna piss me off or I'm gonna get offended or triggered or whatever To the point where I'm gonna be like no compassion for you. It'll happen one day. It's happened in the past for sure There are like two or three people that I really dislike in this world But I I think that you know, hopefully it's good that I'm taking the side of women but then I also have a Like I have another objection to that characterization, which is the side so I don't think women are like a homogenous group I think it's okay to take the side of some people but not other women and it's not like they're all on one team Against somebody else on the other team. That's just not how I see it now You may see it differently and for the record I may be wrong Like you may say hey look you're wrong and here's what's going on and by all means I'm I'm all ears Right. So like I'll be the first to admit that when it comes to gender dynamics, especially on dating I don't know much about that because it's been a long time since I went on a date and I've never used a dating app But I Appreciate your comment and I tried to address it the best way that I could and if you know Y'all have other concerns or objections, please. Let me know But really who's on the opposite side I That's what I'm wondering about Let me see if I can get this actually working while we're waiting Let's see if I can get this Okay Let me see. Oh looks like I can't do that on YouTube, but so be it We'll mess with it in a second when destiny's on Okay, so we also have Jacqueline saying stop vaping and smoking weed your big reason as to why thank you. Dr. Kate, you know, that's great Jacqueline like I really think You know when it comes to like weed and nicotine I Think it's really hard to tell How that stuff affects us when we start using it for a long time so I shared this stuff, I think recently on stream this week, but You know one of the things I've noticed is like working in addiction psychiatry is like when I work with people especially who let's say use alcohol What they sort of find is that there's you know They drink every day or they drink regularly and they like they think that this is like what it like What's it what it's like to be normal, right? They have sort of this idea of a normal level of consciousness and when we have this normal level of consciousness I don't think we really realize that What we really? What our baseline level of consciousness is is actually different So I'll see people who don't really feel the full effects of sobriety Until three months six months out. So just to give you all an example or about alcohol So alcohol has multiple effects on your state of consciousness It has an acute effect of the substance floating around in your brain It has a tolerance effect of when we have alcohol regularly. We develop a sense of tolerance So and then in the absence of alcohol those neurological adaptations still exist It takes some time to develop tolerance and some time to get rid of tolerance this is what we've kind of call withdrawal when people are getting rid of their tolerance and Then there's even more downstream effects that are three six months later because we know that alcohol is cytotoxic to white matter, which means that it damages the supportive structures in our brain the supportive cells and When it does that That takes time to heal like months yo, dude Give me just a second Count to ten for me You say oh shit, okay, hold on wonder if I'm screwed up say something again Okay, I think is it me is it you I can't hear you but it's me. It's me. Okay. I don't oh, that's interesting Hold on we are going to do tech support output devices default So, let's check okay, this is working mic test soundboard test video default Testing testing testing Testing Testing oh, yeah, you're right. Hold on Give me a second, that's so weird Give me a second. Hold on chat technical difficulties You Okay, I'm trying to test desktop stuff but I you're sure it's not you right Because I other stuff works I wonder if it's a problem on discord I Can't hear you You you're pointing down Default you want to type? Oh, look at what you're typing. Look at what you're typing. I figured I gotcha. I gotcha Okay, it should be coming yeah, you're right so green box is lighting up you're right Okay, let's do this though, but I'm so confused about why Come on, nope I'm with you that the green box is lighting up which usually means it's my problem Let's fix this Real quick Okay, so this works No, hold on All right, good enough and then I don't know why discord isn't working Hold on I Know you are lighting up right Okay, so speakers are set to default Okay, hold on one second, I'm gonna drop out of the call for a second, okay Let me see if I can test with somebody else I don't know why give me a second chat Okay, that works you guys heard that right Let me see if there's somebody else I can hop on nope I'm so confused Voice and video voice activity Yeah, y'all are right. I don't hear a you should hear a little beep when you change your output device, right? That's so weird That's so weird, yeah, I usually I hear a bite Wait did y'all hear a ping Nope no ping on desktop audio, so it looks like it's on my end testing testing testing I Don't know it's weird. Let me try restarting discord Okay No, I don't think that I think discord doesn't close Okay, now it looks closed Now let's check Try blowing on it try different yeah, so so you know I have my default windows audio output and then I have Hey tech teller Yeah, I have a problem with my discord output for some reason it's not working And I have no idea why because this was working fine like yesterday But y'all can't hear tech teller, right I can't hear you. Oh, I can you okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I can hear you y'all can hear tech teller Wait did y'all hear tech teller there Wait did y'all hear tech teller there As sink testing Testing okay, I can hear you little chat testing One testing testing one two three, okay Okay, I can't show you But I okay, so I I'm gonna go ahead and try it and see if it works I'm gonna try it and see if it works. Okay, don't worry about that. Let me hop on with destiny. I'll ping you in a second All right destiny brah Please tell me you can hear me Yes, okay, we're good Sorry about that. I have no idea what happened Well, the only thing that matters we're here now so yes That's you know, it terrifies me because like this stuff is just set up, you know What do you mean by I don't that was a very vague statement what do you mean this stuff is just I mean like so so like if you configure discord and And then you close the program and then you open the program and you haven't changed any settings and it's worked like a Thousand times before it just sometimes stops working Yeah, audio is weird, you know, it's weird like that and I didn't even I just closed to discord and reopened it didn't change any settings So turning it back on off and turning it back on again seems to work well I'm gonna be honest my level of expertise with tech is quite high and the number one troubleshooting thing I still do personally is also turning it off and on again That's probably my troubleshoot like 80% of my problems. Yeah, or I'm plugging it and plugging it into a different slot Especially with USB for some reason some USB slots are just really weird. So hey, you know, that's a legitimate form of troubleshooting Yeah, I mean cuz all the stuff you were saying I usually walk people through stuff Because I have leveled up my troubleshooting skill in life But anyway, thanks for thanks for talking today, man Yeah, what's up? Um, you tell me bro. How have you been? Um Let me hold on let me I want to focus on this there's a one quick thing Okay How have I been? Um Good. I think it's like a busy you stress like lots of stress, but there's lots of stuff going on Activity it's just it's a lot of stuff. There's a lot of stuff. That's cool. What kind of stuff are you doing? Well, I had there was an interesting weird legal situation with my wife where they were because of how complicated the international taxes are Sweden thought that they were cooking her books, which is ridiculous But I came here to Sweden to be with her for her court thing. Seems like it went really well She finally got her passport back. So that's good I have been going with my parents where I kind of like made a deal with them that Because my mom has Alzheimer's disease and it's starting to advance more noticeably I made a deal with my dad that if long as long as they close all of their credit cards and they get rid of All their credit and they freeze their accounts. I'll pay all their debt off so that my dad can retire early And then that's been a thing. I've been kind of working out of the background Obviously as my platform has gotten larger and I've like expanded to more people I'm trying to like manage like my streaming by traveling and being on other podcasts My responsibilities being like a political guy and like finding like what my bearings should be on all of that Especially when a red pill shit I've had this huge thing recently about the medication stuff that I reached out to you Yeah, I've got yeah, there's a million things. There's always a million things. I've hired a lot of new employees I've got a podcast that I hope I'm finally starting Yeah, just yeah, just like a million things. Yeah. Wow. So I'm I am hearing a million things So like personal stuff on several fronts professional development stuff, but also like it sounds like you're Not doing I'm getting the sense that you're juggling different kinds of balls then then you used to Yeah, a little bit yeah more personal stuff now, I think maybe yeah Well even even I mean So I when I think about let's say three years ago and in the kind of work that you you did you were mostly Streaming and and now it sounds like you're doing a lot of other stuff Yeah, well still trying to do mostly streaming yeah trying yeah, like my audience makes fun of me for never streaming anymore But like last month I streamed 170 hours and that account is no streaming for them. So wow, but like yeah. Yeah So yeah, it's a lot of 170 hours. That's a lot man Yeah, I try yeah, but they're used to me way back in the day I would stream like 300 hours and then they're probably more used to like 200 to 250 and then 170 or 160 from there seems like nothing. So yeah That's crazy man So you yeah, I think so and you mentioned something about you had some questions about like stimulant medication or something Yeah, basically or maybe even more broadly like mind or maybe any type of I guess like Enhancement medication, I guess okay. Yeah, talk to me about it. Let's you you want to you want to hop in or you want to? Talk about other stuff I'm curious because I see you popping up we I don't know if you've noticed this I think I reached out to you. We are we have missed each other like two or three times in incredibly random places I did a show with Charlie the guy from Chris my command and I yeah I think I was in his house like four hours after you left. I know idea. I remember. Yeah, I remember that that coincidence Yeah, I do think we're like popping up in similar places Yeah, I do think we're like popping up in similar places You know, I think I think I may be I'm yeah, I'm going out to SF LA and in Las Vegas probably in a couple of weeks to do things that I'm sure you're You have done or will be doing or somehow affiliated with But yeah, we do keep on We're like ships passing in the night, but the cool thing is that we can you know connect about stuff Yeah Yeah, so your stuff is going good you're are you happy with how I guess what you guys are with all of your online stuff with the Expansion of your platform and talking to other people or how's happened? How do you feel like I've been going? Yeah So I think it's been going well But but also it's like very confusing because I'm not quite sure what direction to go because we've got a lot of different options And and just trying to figure out Like what do people need and what's the best way to deliver it? So we recently started a channel for parents And and so like that's something that is a very different demographic, but I was kind of thinking about it like Okay, like where do most of the problems in our community originate from? I think it originates from upbringing. So if you want to have the largest impact on mental health I think Helping people's upbringing and their sort of formative years as humans is probably like the biggest thing that you can do And I think a lot of the problems that we see today are because The world that parents are growing up in is different and the parenting skills that they have are no longer Sufficient for like the digital age So we're trying to do something there. We'll see how that goes But that's not the place that we get the most traction Yeah, but you know, I think just what you said there That's that's so interesting because I like I grew up as a probably more online than most but my I kind of had a foot In both worlds just because of my age right? I'm 34 cell phones didn't really exist until like 2007 with the iPhone everything before that was like questionable And even I have like a really big difficulty with my son like trying to set like what's an appropriate boundary How should he communicate with people online? It's really hard when children are communicating online because as an adult if somebody messages me like I know how to verify people's identities Do you have social media or do you post or whatever? But when Nathan is communicating with you know, a 12 year old, you know boy or girl Verifying all of that or making sure you know Who's who is way more difficult and I I would expect that me being like the permanently online streamer like I'll be able to do This no problem, but it's really challenging out there and I am not envious of the parents that have you know Almost no tech about background trying to sort through, you know Their child being in these new crazy online environments that are so unprecedented they have no, you know experience with you Yeah, I mean exactly so so, you know, I think that it's just it's it's getting harder because Technology I think is becoming more invasive. I think as platforms compete against each other for our attention spans The one person that definitely ends up losing our attention is ourselves, right? so if like tick-tock and YouTube and and twitch if everyone's competing for us Instagram and As they get better at competing against each other like the one person who loses time is is us And and so I think that there's just a lot of work there to be done and we'll see kind of how that goes Yeah. Yeah, I agree Okay. Well, so let's talk about yeah, so what's going on man? so I'll do I'll do from a personal perspective first And actually maybe even you can help me sort this like personal thing. I'm curious by you how you decide this I have a really hard time in my life sorting out What is like an appropriate? Like like where do you draw lines on a spectrum for some things? So for instance, maybe for a relationship, right? Like the best partner would be a partner that had all the same hobbies similar communication styles You know similar age so like all these things but in the real world we kind of have to like make some We make some compromises. You're not gonna have like the most 100% perfect person or when it comes to like my I think for my free time Sometimes I look at the time that I have and I'm thinking like I could be do I always feel like I could be doing so Much more like I'll wake up and maybe I you know, I'm in bed on my phone for 30 minutes maybe I You know, yeah, it's usually it's like reddit or I thank God. I don't have tick-tock Maybe it's like sitting in my chair and like reading chat instead of like going to the gym immediately Like I look at all of these little points in the day where I am losing time And I know you know, it's like an online person is a million other things you can do I What do you think is like at what point do you draw an appropriate boundary? We're like you should be pushing yourself 100% or 50% or 80% Do you have any like how would you even go about figuring that out? I guess so I I I would I I would so personally not personally but personally and professionally. I think that The premise is flawed So when you kind of said that there's like this perfect partner who has a BCD like that's where how you find the perfect relationship I don't think that's actually what constitutes a perfect relationship. So a perfect relationship isn't about Finding 100% it's about the interactions that you have you don't need the same communication style You need investment and reciprocity as usually or some degree of balance, right? Which you could say that's the that's what's on the 100% But I think in order to answer this question of Okay, I could be doing so much more right like that's your question. Like how do you decide? How much to push yourself and how much to kind of and and I would start with like why do you need to do more? From a well from a from a socially responsible point of view I feel like I have I make a ton of money now I have a ton of influence and The only reason why I've gotten to where I'm at is because people that had the means to do so invested a lot in Society prior to me whether you're talking about scientific researchers whether you're talking about really inspirational teachers Whether you're talking about revolutionary fighters George Washington whoever like all of these figures have invested in into kind of like mankind because of the unique gifts and talents and Opportunities they've had and I feel like I kind of owe it to pay it forward So on a societal level, I feel like I that obligation exists with everybody to some extent And then from a from a personal development level, I just see that like Let's say like let's say that I spend like an hour on reddit every day, right? I think I could very easily cut out 30 minutes and like practice guitar And if I look at where I'm at one year like retrospectively my life is a million times better I know that it's like a way better like I could probably uninstall reddit for my phone and my life would probably be better for It, you know even if my day-to-day instant dopamine hits aren't there the fulfillment I'll feel at the end of the year is just gonna be better and I have a hard time not like reductively applying that same thought process to every single area of my life Like I remember there was one week where well it was just now we'll get into the medication They want to say the stimulants where I would wake up at like 9 a.m And like my goal was to be like on the treadmill in the gym at 9 o 5 Okay, I wanted to wake up like throw my pants and everything on grab my phone so I could check my emails But I'm only doing that like on the treadmill and when I started to live days like this I'm like, holy shit like I'll have like gym and like two errands done by like 1130 a.m. I'm like, this is way better But then obviously yeah, I mean you can't burn yourself into the ground So I don't know like what is like the appropriate way to draw lines there or something. That's that's how I do it I guess sorry. Yeah, no, I mean I I think that I think the appropriate way to draw lines has to do with what's important To you, right? So so I think like once again, I mean you I'm all for being more efficient but and you talk about these like big people right who have made big contributions and I mean how much do you owe the world? As much as you can give I would say I would think so but Why? I feel like The the way that like humanity kind of works the way that people work is there is something about us That's greater than the sum of our parts Like if you were to use a really crude calculation of like how much happiness can one person produce? Maybe it's like ten units, but if you take two people and you put them together together, then we're gonna have like 300 units that society civilization our institutions all of this collective work kind of like builds on itself to create something That's so much more than the sum of its parts and for in order for that to work going forward I think it kind of requires people to You know like rise to a calling or pursue certain gifts that they have in certain ways to I guess like better society Or the people around them at least I would say okay. How do you feel when you do to errands and you? Go to the gym Go to the gym by 1130 You're really good. Obviously. Yeah, really good in what way? like what part of Part of me my brain I mean if I feel I feel very productive like I've done something that I know is good for me I've done something that I know I had to do like work wise I still got a lot of time in the day I just I feel like I'm very effectively allocating my time and that feels really good Like ineffectively allocating my time feels really bad like so bad that it can ruin days. Yeah, what feels bad about it? Man I don't know like if I I'm sure some people I'm sure people can Vibe with this vibe with this if you wake up at 9 and you're on your phone in bed until like 11 And then you get out of bed It just it feels like you've wasted like there's two hours of my day that I could have done Bettering myself the people around me financially There's like a million better things I could have done with my time But I did nothing and now that time is just wasted and it feels if I say inefficient, it sounds robotic, but um It just feels like there's so many other better things. Yeah, I could do my time I would just be like a better person. How do you feel about yourself for wasting time? You're bad stupid like dumb like I know I'm smart enough to know that there's a stupid use of my time They're sitting here like on my fucking phone like an idiot. Yeah, that sounds man. I don't mean but like I do feel that way Yeah What do you think about that Disappointing I guess that I know I can do better so so okay Here's you wasting time. Okay, here's you reacting to you wasting time So this person is disappointed. What do you think about this dyad this interaction between you and yourself? Like the distance from my cognition to my metacognition or is that like what do you think about the relationship? Between your cognition and your metacognition because there's a relationship there, right? Uh-huh. Um, I mean sometimes the the tether is very short and sometimes it's very very far away This has been something that I've been struggling with that kind of leads us into the Into the Into the I guess like the the ADHD and the medication talk So I've tried stimulants now for about two weeks after getting a diagnosis And I feel like these two things have like become one basically what is that where? As in like before I might wake up and it's like I should get out of bed and we'll kind of check reddit And I see what's going on. It's already 30 minutes blah blah blah like that's kind of like how it's going I know I should probably get out of bed. Whereas now like if I If I'm throughout the day if I need to do something's like I need to do this and then I go and I do that Because I know I need to do it and it's like obvious like I need to do this Let's go do it rather than like sitting down and check my computer doing a bunch of other random stuff Like I can think I need to do something and then go do something So I feel like those two things have have shrunk significantly. Okay So so it seems like you were you were further able to meet your goals Since you started stimulant medication Yeah And okay, so let's just offer just a couple of quick Ground rules boundary setting So I'm not going to dispense medical advice and let's just be clear on what that is So I think it's completely fine to have a conversation like an existential or philosophical conversation about Performance enhancement stimulants. What do we want to do in life, etc? What usually medical advice around stimulants looks like involves a thorough diagnostic process Involves a thorough diagnostic process, right? so i'll ask you a thousand questions that i'm not going to ask you today and then as well as like Discussing different treatment options the process of informed consent Um, these are the things that constitute the practice of medicine and developing a treatment plan So i'm happy to share i've had these conversations with mentees of mine because people are wondering right like this is a very common conversation to have so I think it's totally fine But just so we're on the same page I'm not going to be diagnosing you or treating you with anything or saying you should or should not take stimulants because In order for me to say that I have to know medically diagnostic information Are we clear on that? Yeah, i'd make a joke, but being very serious. I 100 understand that. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean destiny I I think uh Okay, so so you feel good about yourself after you Have started taking stimulants because you're more productive Well, hold on. That was a much That was a much larger statement. I feel good when I can do the things that I need to do immediately Um, do I feel good about myself in a broader sense? I guess that's kind of like the the dilemma or that was for a while. That was like the issue. Yeah So what in what? Ways do you not feel good about yourself, right? Because you're you're so So you started stimulant medication so you could get more stuff done and it seems like you know It sounds like you you went through a very legitimate process of seeing a medical profession or professional You know arriving at a reasonable diagnosis and a reasonable stimulant I mean a treatment plan that included stimulants. Is that fair to say? Okay. Yeah, so And why did you do that? Yeah, so and why did you do that? Um, what was your motivation? Yeah, I want to say like I think it was six years ago Uh, my son had major issues in the classroom Um like such that we went through so many different I think they're called IEPs for uh classrooms You have been yeah, um, we had him like crawling through resistance tunnels to burn energy We wondered if he had asd We were trying to figure out like what was going on and eventually we kind of settled on um adhd and then we tried to manage that a few ways and then I had to do a lot of reading about drugs because um, i'm a I want to say toxically masculine that I grew up very conservative. I've had like four ibuprofen my life i'm not like a pill guy at all and the idea of having my Um, jesus, what would he would have been like what seven year old son like on you know, uh, you know amphetamines is like jesus That's it or methylidone or methyl methane whatever the other one was called Um, that was a big deal to me So I did a whole bunch of reading a whole bunch of research and in the course of all of that reading and research because I kind of wanted to know like is like I don't want to say I didn't believe that adhd was a real thing, but i'm like a big again I grew up conservative. I'm a big like, you know, if you want to do it get it done, you know, it's all about you Forget excuses or anything else Um, I started to see a whole bunch of things crop up when I was doing research that I didn't know were adhd typical behaviors And then when I went back and I mapped them onto my life, I saw that I had a lot of exceptional um so One thing was the the concept of starting a project with a whole bunch of focus pouring an inordered amount of time into it And then never being able to pick up a project again. I didn't know that that was like typical of adhd people That's one thing Um, the idea of not being able to manage homework regardless of academic proficiency For I think three or four years I think in grade school I was the only kid in my class that had to have my assignment notebook signed off on by my teachers and my parents I couldn't do it. I remember times growing up where I would cry doing homework. I just didn't want to do it was so horrible um I remember behaviors relating to oh the Addictiveness that adhd people have with regular dopamine scheduled things like video games Some people call this hyper focus But basically if you can find something with a common reward system, you can do it 16 hours a day stuff like that I was a pro star graph two player. I did that um Yeah, I started to see a bunch of these things crop up and then I and and then just the general issue with executive dysfunction And a lot of these things I didn't really associate with adhd I thought adhd was just like you're hyper and you're running around everywhere and that wasn't me I sat at a computer and I played computer games But fast forward from all of that, you know, I had my son start the medication. It's been really good for him. Thankfully now as as my future has continued there was a I would never advocate for anybody to do this ever and I don't advocate but you know illegal drugs and blah blah blah But um, I had the opportunity to try a stimulant medication from a friend and you know, they made a joke They're like, oh, yeah, you're gonna take this you're gonna be bouncing up and down the walls. It could be crazy Blah blah blah and I was like, okay, fuck it, you know, um, and I tried a stimulant medication for the first time in life I want to say I think it was like about a year ago and it was the calmest chillest most focused relaxed day I think I ever had my life and I was just super like I could choose to do something I could whatever And then fast forward like seven or eight months later. I've had a lot of conversations with friends I finally get a formal diagnosis and then I'm like, okay Well, let's try medication and let's see how my life changes and then if there's something I want for the better or not I guess that's a sorry. I was like to try to do the reader's digest version of that. But yeah That was that was fantastic. Thank you so much for sharing that Um, okay, and and so what's what's your hang up? So you started the medication It sounds like it allows you to do what you set it out to do. So Where's the rub? Yeah, I guess the hang up is before I started it So I got the diagnosis and then I got the prescription and then for like seven days Like my issue is always that when it comes to issues of the mind, I'm thinking like Why not just be less of a lazy piece of shit? That's what I feel like So like when I get out of bed, there's not a guy there That's like punching me to stay in bed and to be lazy You know There's not a guy like holding a gun to my head saying read your fucking phone for three hours Like I can just choose not to do it and there are days where if I have like exceptional, you know Mental tenacity and exceptional focus like fucking I am going to do all this shit that I haven't done it before But I I don't know why I just can't do it every day. So then it feels at some point like Is this a cop-out to be like I'm neurodivergent? I'm like Executively stupid and i'm going to take like a fucking pill and i'm going to pop this and like oh cool It fixed all my problems. Like does that say something I guess about my character. Does that yeah When you say does that say something about your character? What do you think? Uh, I mean intuitively, yeah What does it say about your character? Uh that you need some sort of exogenous or external like physical Motivator to do something that you should be able to do on your own This is something you should be able to motivate yourself for on your own and the fact that you require something External especially when it comes to neurotransmitters is like something is broken with you and I don't know if it's broken It's just something you're not willing to fix or not willing to put the time or effort into fixing it. Okay And how do you feel about yourself for not putting in the do you do you think it's theoretically possible for you to achieve What you want without stimulants? Um, I think so The so, um anytime I have dilemmas like this I solicit, uh, I asked my fans i'm like, what do you guys do? I'm curious what your thoughts are. So I got a lot of feedback one thought that stuck with me a lot Is a person emailed me and they said you've been talking about like overcoming your adhd and all this for like five years Basically ever since nathan was diagnosed and then you know look back at your life in five years. Did you do it? I was like no not at all And I was like if I could have lived the last five years of my life on stimulants Even if I do take the hit to my moral character because i'm not you know working as hard on myself Every single other part of my life improves tenfold. I'd be healthier because I'd be going to the gym more often Um, I would be probably eating better. I would be more focused on my research for my streams I'd be a better debater. I'd be a better advocate for my ideas I'd be managing extra time better for like hobbies or extracurriculars like practicing an instrument You know during rock climbing whatever the fuck that even if it was the case that at the end of those five years Maybe my moral character is slightly diminished the gains that I've made Every other part of my life would be so appreciable. It wouldn't even matter. I wouldn't even be thinking about that So what's the problem? Um Well, I mean when I first messaged you I was like Spiraling hard But now i've gone through a lot of emails and I thought about it a lot and I've kind of Um, yeah, I mean I thought about it more and I I think I feel pretty good But it is a very weird feeling like standing in line at a pharmacy or waking up and taking a pill Like that's just not my the type of person I guess i've ever been in my entire life Um, can I also feel like a lot of other people yeah go yeah, can I just think? Yeah, oh go for it Yeah Okay. I've got a question for you. What do you think is, so what I'm hearing is that on paper, stimulants are a good idea for you. Yeah. And in actuality, they may be a good idea for you. I'm hearing that you judge yourself quite harshly for needing them, utilizing them, taking the shortcut. Fair? Oh, is it? Yeah, yes. I don't know. Yeah, that's true. Where do you think is the origin of that judgment? Is the origin of that judgment? Is the origin of the judgment, like, are you asking, like, why I feel like I need them or why I would judge myself for taking them? The latter. The latter. Oh, former is important too, but let's start with the latter. Because I feel like maybe I need to go deeper, you can tell me, but like, it feels like I'm short-cutting a process that I should be able to work through. And where, so there's a value, there's a value judgment inherent in that, right? That taking the hard way is superior to taking the easy way. That you should be able to do this. Yeah. You should be able to do this better. And then that should is, it's a comparison of what everybody else around me is like, essentially. That my understanding is most people can decide to do something and do something, and that it's not a huge issue for a lot of these people. Whereas I seem to struggle with it sometimes exceptionally. So I should be able to do what most people can do. And what I'm hearing from you is like, okay, so like between this tension, right? So on the one hand, you can do it the hard way, which is like meditate and do whatever else we can talk about that in a second. Like you can kind of overcome your ADHD as if it's an obstacle. And there is data to suggest, and I don't know if this is kind of what you found, but you can do that. Right? There are outcomes from things like psychotherapy are equivalent to stimulant medication. We can talk about that data in a second. And so there's a tension between kind of taking this shortcut. And then I almost hear you like making justifications to yourself. Right? That like, okay, like objectively, if I do this, so I've been dicking around for five years, now I'm kind of done. Objectively like, I could have done so much more now that I'm on it, I can accomplish so much more. So I need to accomplish so much more because of this like complicated or maybe not complicated because of this meaty worldview about like social good and paying it forward and existing for the benefit of humanity and all this kind of stuff. Right? So there's like all these like big reasons for Stephen to take stimulants and those big reasons fight against, well, I should be able to do it without it. And what I'm hearing you ask is how do I find the balance between these two things? When is it a cop out? When is it not a cop out? When is it the right move? When is it the wrong move? And so you're stuck between these two things. Yeah. From like, I guess from like a normative ethics point of view, it's like there's like some virtues that I think are worth aspiring to, but then there's like some consequential attitudes that are undeniable. So like, for instance, if I could take a pill right now and have the ideal flawless, perfect body composition, blood levels and everything, like I feel like I shouldn't take that pill. But at some point you do so much math where it's like, well, you know, or you do so much utilitarian calculus, you're like, well, I probably should do this. It wouldn't make sense not to. Like I almost wonder if I got diagnosed as like a type one or type two diabetic, would I think that like, well, do I really need insulin or can I just do like a keto diet on the glycemic index? It's above like a 10 ever and I'll be okay. Yeah, it's that kind of thing, I guess. Okay. It's balancing out like that virtue with the yeah, I guess with the consequentialist idea or whatever. Yeah. And do you prefer if I call you Steve, Stephen, Destiny? What do you prefer? Stephen's good. Okay. So Stephen, I think I know this sounds kind of weird, but I mean, you're asking me what my opinion is. So I'm going to say I think you're approaching it wrong. So I think the real answer to this is not so it's not going to work, basically. So you have you're kind of fighting like an intellectual, I'm going to call it intellectual. It's not quite intellectual, but you're fighting a battle and trying to figure out what the right answer is. I don't think that's what works well. I think what works really well is understanding your relationship with yourself, understanding the origins of the different pieces, and then even resolving some of the fuel behind your beliefs. So you can have two beliefs that can butt heads and then you can logically try to decide which one is right. But what I find is far, far, far more effective, and this is like more of a personal value system is to understand like the way that you relate to things. So I'm going to just toss out a couple of things. Okay. The first is there's this interesting concept, which I loved learning about and love teaching even though I'm not very good at it, is the psychodynamics of psychopharmacology. So the psychodynamics is kind of like psychodynamic psychotherapy is like sort of based on psychoanalysis. So it kind of has this idea that like we have all these like associations and meanings and interpretations and the way that we relate to different stimuli in our environment. We can dig into that and there's like a whole way to understand, okay, like my mom didn't hug me and what does that mean to me? And how does that have a subconscious impact? All that crap that we sort of think of is like Freudian psychoanalysis. All that sort of stuff is like the way that we relate to things. There is a whole rich exploration of the way that we relate to taking a pill. So I think this, I don't know if you're doing psychotherapy, but I think sort of like doing psychotherapy around this can be very helpful for people with ADHD. Like what does it mean to you to take a medication? Because the answer is not should you take one objectively or not objectively. That's part of your treatment plan and you and your provider will decide based on evidence-based outcomes and all that kind of stuff. But like what does it mean to you to take this pill? That's a very important exploration. And I think that's ultimately what's going to fix the problem. It's not like the cookie can crumble either way, right? Because you can make a good logical argument either way. So it's not like there is a right answer or wrong answer. Both of them are justifiable courses. The real issue, the real rub, the tension that I'm seeing in you and the struggle that I'm seeing you has nothing to do with the right answer or the wrong answer. It has to do, if you really want to fix that, you have to understand your relationship to the thing. Now, this is where things get, you with me so far? This is where things get interesting. So let's just talk a little bit about outcomes, stimulants, and all that kind of stuff. So it sounds like you did a lot of research on your kid, or not your kid, but kids with ADHD. And what did you discover? Well, now I'm a little bit worried because maybe I was looking at the wrong stuff. No, you were- For most of the, well, I was going to say for most of the ADHD stuff, I had a really hard time finding meditation or other sorts of interventions in larger studies showing to have positive outcomes similar to medication. The only reason why I finally broke down and got the diagnosis for ADHD is because it felt like stimulant-based medication was some of the only stuff that showed really good outcomes related to people that were super big into the ADHD thing. But I might have missed that somehow, or I might have, yeah. No, no. I'm, don't, yeah. Okay, we're going to get into the phrase broke down in a second. But so let's just understand a couple things about stimulant medication, okay? A lot of people don't realize this. So the first thing is that if you give a child a stimulant, it has very, very good outcomes, generally speaking, for adults. So this is what's really kind of confusing. So let's just illustrate with one example. So some people think that since stimulants are abusable, that, and we also know that exposing developing brains to substances of abuse will increase the risk of addiction as they develop. So when I have my nucleus accumbens and my dopamine reward circuitry that is developing and I give it highly dopaminergic stuff, it wires in a different way to where I am sensitive to substances in the future. So we actually have decent evidence that marijuana is actually a gateway drug. Like that is not, it's not some propaganda or anything. I mean, there may be propaganda around it, but basically we know that if you start using marijuana in your teenage years, you are more likely to develop a neurochemistry that is sensitive to other dopaminergic or addictive substances. So people were worried, right? Because we've got this pile of evidence. And if you give a seven year old, oh my God, an amphetamine that is dopaminergic, will it increase his risk of addiction? The answer is almost certainly not. And this confuses the hell out of all kinds of people because we were like, wait a second, because this stuff is highly dopaminergic. What we actually find is when you give a child with ADHD a stimulant, their risk of addiction goes down over the course of their life. Now that's really good. Because of a change of behavior or? Great question. So the answer is complicated. The first thing is to understand what a stimulant does. So a stimulant medication works on the frontal lobes of our brain. So the part of our brain that it actually stimulates is the breaks. So the ability of our brain to restrain other parts of our brain. So if we look at what predisposes people to addiction, it's things like emotional dysregulation, impulsivity. These are both big risk factors for addiction. So when you strengthen the brain and you are no longer as impulsive and you can regulate your emotions, you become less vulnerable to the benefit of substances. Does that make sense? Yeah, this was in a kind of a run about way for some of the I'll stay on this topic in particular. One of the emails that I got was it was an interesting question of like, what do you think damages your brain more in the long run? Having these amphetamines that are causing these dopaminergic effects in your brain. Dopa, dopaminergic effects in your brain. Do you think that hurts your brain more than playing video games and watching porn for 18 hours a day for years and years and years? And if one amphetamine can help you not engage in all of that other horrible behavior, it might be the case that your brain putting the brakes on some forms of like dopamine seeking behavior is actually more beneficial in the long run for addictive behavior than, you know, yeah, which seems paradoxical. But yeah, yeah. So I think the the the spirit is spot on. But I think there are a couple of important nuances, specifically what the general principle is true. And that'll apply to everything else I'm about to say. But specifically with the case of stimulants, there are some parts of our brain that are vulnerable to addiction. And what the stimulant medication does is buffer those parts of the brain. Right. This is what and now we get to the. So the first thing is that it's interesting because basically several studies have shown that there is certainly not a increased risk of addiction with stimulants. The jury's still out on whether there is a no risk or it's like neutral or it's beneficial. And there's complicated things that get into that, which we're going to get into in a second. But the key thing to understand is that that's number one. Here's the other big, big, big, big, big thing about stimulant medication in kids. Now, I think this is going to sound kind of weird. I think that stimulant medication for kids is not neurodevelopmentally good or healthy. OK, it's going to sound kind of weird because if we just look at developing brains, we basically know that any kind of psychoactive substance does not really help. Like it doesn't help the developing brain. That's just something that we know, whether it's caffeine, whether it's nicotine, alcohol, opiates, whatever, whatever. So then but if we look at outcomes of kids with ADHD who get medicated, the outcomes are good. And in fact, there are studies that show that early use of ADHD medication with higher doses leads to better outcomes as an adult. OK, like we're talking like seven, eight years. We can look at a population of like 12 to 15 year olds and then look at them eight years later. So it's basically like people who got a lot of stimulants early on did better. There are some confounding factors there because those people may have had a more severe illness and other things like that. But I think this is where a lot of people misunderstand one key point, which I think could be relevant to you. So I'm going to which is that growing up with untreated ADHD is traumatic. So if you look at populations of people who have depression and ADHD. And then you ask if you got diagnosed with depression first, what is the likelihood that you will get diagnosed with ADHD later? It is three percent. If you get diagnosed with ADHD first, what is the likelihood you get diagnosed with depression later in life? 70 percent. There is a very clear, causative impact. And this is, by the way, what we see with you. Right. So you're like like you beat yourself up and all this self judgment of it. We come down to its its comparison. Like where does that thought come from? It's because when you were in second grade, you understood that your IQ was the same as everybody else's. But for the life of you, you could just not understand why you could never do homework. I mean, if you think about even what you've said, the memories that you have are so profound because you recall them to this day. You were the only fucking kid in the class who had to have your homework get signed off by your parents and your teacher. And so what happens to that child? The child starts judging themselves very harshly. Why are you so stupid? Why can't you do what other people can do? This is a sign of your weakness. You have this fundamental brokenness. Very common. Yeah. This was the when I was doing research for Nathan, this was the thing that ultimately pushed me over on to do the drugs. I feel like my obligation as a parent is to make sure that his like growing years and everything in grade school are because he's already in a split parent household, which has a whole bunch of negative things associated with it. So I could tell him, you know, go to school, fight through this and do that. But then to do that on top of everything else, I don't want to be in a situation. My kid is like 18. You know, he either doesn't qualify for college or he's sex at high school. And he's like, Dad, why the fuck did you just give me like a stimulus when I was in second grade and then we could deal with whatever negative things. But now you've like ruined my whole life because of some weird feeling that you had about medication. So yeah, that was definitely the thing that pushed me in that direction. Yeah. Yeah. And so like, I think the key thing that you've got to understand is when I see this conflict, I don't see actually like an intellectual conflict. I see like an emotional self judgment fueled conflict. And I think the solution to this is not like, is it good or is it bad? It's to actually heal whatever the hurt is that you had with growing up with undiagnosed ADHD and what that's meant for your life. Because like that, that's the thing. And even the way that you interpret the way that you talk about your child's regrets are like your regrets. Yeah, of course. Yeah. Right. So like, I mean, it's like one to one because what caused you to change your mind? You were like, well, someone said five years ago, if you had started, where would you have been now? So now we get to another problem, which is regret. And this is where like now if we really want to go off the rails, like I've seen this a lot, like why are you trying so hard? I mean, sure, you can construct this whatever social goodness kind of stuff. And like that's good stuff. I'm not saying it isn't. You know, I do that stuff too for social good and all that jazz. But I think that there's a fuel here that has nothing to do with the social good. The fuel has to let me know if I'm wrong here. I think like this regret in the sense of I get this pressure from you about time. Like Steven, are you afraid of death? I mean, sometimes when I'm driving, but no, not I don't think not in general. No, I don't think so. Do you feel like you've regretted or wasted a part of your life? I think I'm trying to think usually what I'll do just as a quick thing, I'll have like a feeling and then I try to intellectualize it. And then I try to slowly if I can think about a thing a little bit differently, the feeling changes over time, essentially, like a bastardized version of CBT, I guess. But the way that I try to view my life is as long as I feel like I'm on a good road and I feel like I'm happy with myself right now and the world that I'm heading on, I try to view my life was having no regrets because any particular bad thing that might have happened might have been a contributing factor to who I am now. So I view it all like pretty favorably. So I might have had like things that were I'll say suboptimal relating to upbringing or earlier in my life. But like I do it as all kind of like these are all part of the stepping stones to who I am now and where I'm going. And I feel really good about those two things, who I am and where I'm going. So that is both really good and really problematic. So I think it's very, very adaptive and it's exactly what you should be doing. You positively cognitively reframed and all that stuff, you bastardized internal version of CBT, call it whatever you want to. But you're essentially taking your intellect and you're molding your emotions with it. But I think there is more to be gained from understanding where those emotions come from in the first place. So from an adaptive standpoint or functional standpoint makes perfect sense that what you want to do is like those emotions are negative. Let's cognitively reframe, adapt, grow, work with this negative, try to get rid of this negative regret. But I think the next step, and this is kind of where I see you, and this is why I think you're running into trouble because I think your tactic won't work for these problems is my sense. So you can logic your way to a functional life where you get up every day, you're optimizing things, you're progressing, you're doing well. And this is where when I've worked with people in the past, I don't think this is a problem. There may be psychological problems related to trauma of growing up with ADHD, but that's between you and your provider and your therapist and all that good stuff. We can talk a little bit more about what that looks like in non-pharmacological approaches if you want to. I think this sounds to me like a spiritual crisis more than anything else. That's what it feels like. And these are like bigger, deeper questions of sure, you can justify, which is what you always end up doing, right? You can justify this as, okay, this was part of my path and it's made me who I am. I'm doing okay in life, so I should not regret the past. But what I don't actually hear you doing is metabolizing the regret. I don't hear you getting to the source of that and trying to figure out, and I think there's a tier above this, which is, there may be some problems to me saying that, but which is understanding that you do regret and that it is okay to regret and that you can still be happy with what you've accomplished. But I think that's very hard for you because of that self-judgment of, I should have been perfect. I understand what you're saying. The spiritual crisis was definitely like probably a year and a half ago, I think, is when I was trying to think of like, do I want to just sit online and kind of move sideways, do decently, or do I want to be more aggressive with my career? And then that's when I kind of thought more about obligations to society and all that. And I feel like, I mean, I'll say that was spiritually solved, but obviously there's still other issues that I'm trying to figure out like medication, right? And that was why in the past year and a half of my career, I've been way more aggressive in terms of doing other things. I do agree with you about what you're saying. You call it metabolizing your regret. But I'm just, I'm trying to say in other words what you're saying so we can make sure I understand. I think there's a negative thing that people will do where, say you have an abusive parent where somebody will say something like, you know, actually that abuse was good for me and my life is so much better because of it. In a way that might be better than walking through life being completely traumatized by it. But like the next level would be saying, well, actually that abuse was really bad for me, but I understand that I've made peace with it. And then I've overcome it and I'm moving in a forward direction. I feel like for the most part, like there are definitely things in my life when I say I have no regret, I guess we could dig a little bit more meter into that. Obviously there are things that have not gone as I would have liked it. And there are things that kind of suck in terms of my upbringing, but like I've made peace with those things. I don't think that they, I don't let them drag me down. Obviously if I could have chosen different types of things in my upbringing, I would absolutely like change the way that some things are. But I think everything's going okay now. So I don't let those things like weigh on me, I guess. You know, it's not like I've, yeah. Yeah. So, so, so, you know, I like even in your language, I think there's like, and this is what I think is really where there's opportunity for progress is like actually has nothing to do with whether you should take stimulant medication or not. This is really a fantastic opportunity for you to understand the different currents within yourself. Right? So what I get the sense that you're focused on is when you have conflicting currents, you have a pretty rigorous process of like getting all the troops in line. Right? So like you'll, and that's good. I mean, you're good at that. You're gifted at that. It's a useful thing to do. It's adaptive. It's cognitive reframing. It's what we try to do in CBT. But there's like, you're spot on that there's another layer of this, which is, which is to ask yourself, like, why do I feel this way in the first place? Right? Why? Like, what is the origin of this judgment? Because imagine if you could get rid of the judgment entirely, not get it in line, but you could understand that. And this is what I think happens is you can cognitively reframe. But basically, if you look at sort of this yogic model of the mind, what happens is when we have negative emotional experiences, those emotions get stored up and they sit in our subconscious mind or our unconscious mind as something called a samskara. And that those emotions will trigger and activate in current circumstances. And so in a situation like yours, what I'm hearing is an echo of the comparisons that you used to make in this idea that you should be able to do what other people are able to do. That is like a core part in CVT, we may call it something like a core belief. Right? And so as long as you have that piece, you really need to understand, like, why do I think that way about myself? Because if you sort of think about it, like, logically, right? I mean, everyone's unique, everyone and I know you do this process. This is the part that you're good at. Right? Everyone's unique. Like, you can't always make comparisons and everyone has advantages and disadvantages. We get a certain amount of stat points to distribute on our character sheet. And that's how it is. I took the ADHD thing for an additional feat at level one, and that's just how it works. And I got debating proficiency, whatever. Right? So there's whatever breakdown that you have, which you can kind of logically understand. But I think now the question is, like, you know, why do you feel this way about yourself? Why is your worldview such that, like, you should be able to do it without it? Right? And that I think will go back to that. That I think will go back to, like, if you really pay attention to your early experiences in childhood, which, by the way, it's another thing that I just connected the dots on. I was really confused the first time we talked because you play games while you're debating with people. Right? Well, I haven't for the past two weeks while I've been on amphetamines. But yeah, I know. I just heard you saying I used to a lot. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that that is not a coincidence that you've stopped. So there's a good evidence. Yeah, no, I don't think it's not at all. There's good evidence that doing a cognitively distracting rote task allows people with ADHD to focus. So when I'm doing group psychotherapy with people with ADHD, I will oftentimes what I learned at one of the hospitals I worked at is knitting. That if they do some kind of rote or even cognitively mildly engaging task, it actually helps them focus because they have, like, too much kind of mental energy and, like, dispersing some of it allows them to actually focus. This is also why people with ADHD sometimes meditate better with their eyes open. Okay. So you need some kind of stimulation, which is something that's interesting. And also if you've started stimulant medication, it would make sense that you don't need... Yeah, it all tracks. Yeah. Yeah. So where are you right now? What are you thinking? Thoughts, questions? I'm writing down, like, big concepts, I guess, to keep track of. The first question of, like, what does it mean to take a pill? I think that's a good... I think there's a lot of room for me to think about and explore how I feel about that because all of my feelings related to that are negative and most of them are, I think, really stupid. They're rooted in stupid things. Like, I know that looking on it intellectually. And then the... Why did I write this down? You were talking about judgment in big caps. Oh, why do I judge myself, I guess, or against, like, what standard do I judge myself? I mean, I feel like judgment is probably a necessary part of... Or you were gonna say something, sorry. No, no, no. Yeah, you know, I think you're... Okay, so let's talk about pills for a second. So why do people have stupid beliefs, Stephen? For all sorts of different reasons. I mean, they could be maladaptive. It could be they learned it from other... I mean, like, why do people develop stupid... Like, so you said, okay, I have all kinds of attitudes towards medication that are stupid. Then why do you have that attitude? Where does that attitude come from? It's probably an inherited belief that's largely unexamined because it doesn't come up much in daily life, basically, yeah. Okay, so I think that's one way to put it. I would chalk it up to an experience, which could be an inherit... What you call an inherited belief, I think, could be an experience, right? Yeah, my dad and my grandpa were like, I don't believe in medicine, I don't care about this. And then now I'm like, if I get a headache, I don't like to take ibuprofen or advo, which is stupid, but it doesn't come up that much, so I don't examine it that much, yeah. Yeah, so I mean, I don't think it's an inherited belief. I think it's a learning, is what I would call it. So even though... Oh, sure, when I say inherited, I mean, like, you learn it, but you're right. Yeah, learning is better. You had some experience early on in life where maybe you were sick and the doctor recommended that you take ibuprofen and you were really hurting, and you were like, dad, should I take the ibuprofen? And he's like, ibuprofen is for sissies. You don't take ibuprofen. And then you felt guilty or bad because you really wanted it, and the doctor said, but you didn't want to be weak, right? And then that whole thing starts. I mean, I have no idea if that's actually what happened, but that's an example. So I think one thing to understand any time you examine your stupid beliefs is you can do the cognitive reframing stuff, but I have found it to be very, very helpful to understand the origins of your experience and why that became a truth for you and how that became a truth for you, because at some point it was learned. That's why you believe it, right? Second thing about judgment is I think exploring the origins of your self judgment are very important. Because right now what's happening is you have a clash between a self judgment and a logic. Right? Can I give you my idea about judgment first, so that we're not using the same words? So I feel like judgment is a necessary part of your self analysis because it allows you to more closely align yourself with whatever your idealized version of yourself is. So for instance, let's say that I think I should be somebody that is truthful to my friends around me, and then let's say that in the past I lied or I lied to somebody, then I would want to judge myself as failing to meet those types of expectations that I would have for a more idealized version of myself. That would be what I would consider like a judgment, not necessarily like, yeah, but I just want to make sure we're using the word in the same way. So yeah, you can tell me that, yeah. Yeah, but I mean, so I think the problem is that the direction of the judgment and the idealized what the target is, it can be based on bad stuff. Okay. Right? So you're right that judgment is a self-correcting. We have this part of our brain that does something called counterfactual thinking, which is, and it's kind of a weird term, but when we make a mistake, there is a factual representation of what happened. And we have a part of our brain that thinks in a counterfactual way. So you could think about it as hypothetical, but our brain goes back and rewrites history outside of the facts. And that is one of the ways that we learn from our mistakes and correct our behavior. So you're right that I think judgment is, it's a judgment that you place that has the direction towards an idealized self. But the problem is that that idealized self and that judgment can come from unhealthy places to begin with. So what I'm saying is- Yeah, definitely, I agree. That's what needs to be examined. Right? Then I guess the question would be, is the ideal that you're aspiring to unhealthy to some extent? I feel like that's what the- Absolutely. Yeah, okay, yeah. Yeah. And then we get to the big problem of, I think you have come up with a very intellectually sound, dharmic, ethical, utilitarian approach to what you want to do with your life. But that's all coming from up here. And what I'm really hearing you need to do is integrate that with the other parts of your mind. Yeah, of course. Right? Because I think that's where you're going to find your balance. Because right now there's a conflict, which means that one side is going to win and one side is going to lose. Or well, ideally, one side is integrated into the other. If you run into a huge incongruence with the mind and the feeling, at some point you have bring one of them into alignment with the other at some point, right? Yeah. So I think in that integration process, one piece is going to lose. Okay. I disagree. Or let's talk about that actually. Yeah, because I feel like I don't agree with that 100%. I'll give an example and then you can talk me through why you think that. I'm curious. So let's say that I feel like I should- shoot, I don't want to use like- well, no, we'll say a negative thing, okay? Let's say that I want to play video games for 16 hours a day. But intellectually I know that it's probably not healthy to play video games for 16 hours a day. But I really like playing video games. So at some point, I ration this out to like, well, I think playing like one or two hours a day maybe, that's healthy. I would view that as a sort of compromise where I don't know if I would say one side is lost or not, but maybe you would frame it as like one side is lost. Like the emotional side of wanting to play for- yeah, go ahead. Absolutely. The emotional side of you wants to play for 16 hours a day. Like if we were to- But like maybe the intellectual side wants to play for like zero hours a day, like don't play video games about it. Sure, so both- So you compromise. Anytime you integrate or compromise, both sides lose, right? Okay, that's how you- okay, sure, okay, gotcha. Right, so my point is that there's a different way. And I think it's fine. What you've done is awesome. Like I'm not trying to- you know, I think like the higher you climb on the MMR scale, the harder things get and the more subtle they become. So I think there's another way to go about this, which is to metabolize the root of why do I want to play 16 hours a day in the first place. It's not about reconciling two parts. It's about getting to the source of like what does 16 hours a day mean to me? What's important about this? And then as you get down that road, something cool happens, which is that the desire kind of melts away. And then you're sort of left without either side. And then you're kind of like, you can just sort of make a choice and you're not being like driven by these two different things. Sure. Can you expand on that when you say the desire melts away? Like can you think your way through wanting to ever play video games? Yeah, what do you mean by that? Can you expand on that? Theoretically, you can think your way through that. There is a subset of the practice of yoga. I'm not talking about the postures. I mean like the traditional meaning of the word yoga, which is like paths to enlightenment called Jnana yoga, which is the yoga of knowledge. So one major text of that is this text called the Brahma Sutra, which is like a text that talks about logical argument. So it's like a text on argument basically. But theoretically it is possible. It's not logic. It's more contemplation. And then like if you kind of think about, so theoretically maybe it's possible. It's something that when I was learning, I was taught that this is the hardest path of yoga of which there are very, very few true yogis who like really know how to do this anymore. Because it's not logic. It's contemplation. But the other way that I would think about it is, first of all, does that answer your question or what was your question? What do you mean when you talk about like the dissolution of desire, I guess? I kind of thought it was going to be, I don't know if there was like, oh, well, when you just do this. But I've heard of like the far more complicated ones. Yeah, but yeah, but there is absolutely a dissolution of desire. So like this, this is where things get kind of cool, which is like the more that you explore the origin of whatever your desires are, the more you will discover that there is nothing at the bottom. Okay. Right. So we assume that the things that we want are like real. Once you realize the origin of the want, do you realize that, oh, this is like not a real thing. It's just like, just to give you a simple example, let's say I want to play a particular video game. So I've been on the fence about buying Starfield because I don't know. And so if I really look at, okay, do I want to buy the game? Do I not want to buy the game? I draw a logical argument about reasons to buy Starfield, reasons to not buy Starfield. And I can go back and forth. But the real antidote to that is like, why do I want Starfield in the first place? What am I looking for? And the more and more I go into myself, the more I realize, okay, like what is the origin of my desire for Starfield? I saw an ad about it. What is the origin of my desire? I saw people talking about it. What is the origin of my desire? Oh, like I enjoyed playing Morrowind and Oblivion so much that I longed for that experience again. And then as I sit down and I engage in some degree of like reflection and contemplation, okay, so like I've had things that I enjoyed in the past. Do I want to hold on to that? I don't need to. That was, I can just appreciate that for what it is. And it's kind of weird, but at like the end of that process, there's just nothing there. Is it necessarily good to dissolve all of your desires? I don't know how Buddhists were getting, but like the counterclaim I'm going to say is like, well, what if you have a desire to be like a good father or a good parent? Like you want to drill down and yeah, go ahead. It depends on what your goal is. So when you say good, how are you defining that end zone? Good normatively, morally, like it sounds like dissolving a desire to partake in a vice is tautologically good because vices are bad. And if you can dissolve your desire to have a vice, you've done something good, right? We move away from vice and towards virtue. That's what I'm thinking. Good. You've made yourself a better person, improved your character, I guess. So I'm going to say, so a couple of things. The first is that there are, there's a subset of spiritual practitioners called aghori babas. Gore means fear. Aghor means lack of fear. So these are people who intentionally engage in vice-like behavior as part of their spiritual progression. Now, in this case, vice-like behavior includes marijuana, eating of meat, even cannibalism in some cases. And they actually intentionally expose themselves to negative things to try to transcend this like tautological idea of like good and bad. So they drink alcohol and get high and eat fish and meat and sleep in cemeteries and stuff like that. So there's a spiritual path that kind of does that. But then the goal there is this idea that this tautology between good and bad is actually like a human construction and that it's not a real thing, that it's kind of this non-dualism, which is like a philosophical view, that most of the yoga practitioners kind of take. It's the dominant school that has emerged historically. So first thing is that there's a perspective that tautologically good and bad is not a real thing. And it's just, these are judgments that we make. We know that good and bad changes over time because people used to think something is good. Now they think it's bad. So what's really good or bad? Second thing is from a more practical perspective, I think that for 99% of people moving on this path will improve their life in a significant way. But if you really look at the precision of it, abandoning desire makes you not a good citizen in the world of life. So if your goal is to break free of the cycle of suffering and to become enlightened and achieve whatever your highest human potential is, which can be viewed as virtuous and there's a whole fun angle there, but as you become more and more enlightened, you don't behave the way that a normal person will. Generally speaking, I think that, like I said, for 99% of the times, that's good. But let's remember that when Buddha started his journey on enlightenment and also became enlightened, he basically abandoned his wife and child and kingdom and pursued something else. I think most people don't get there. But technically, if you want to really get to it, like you could say, okay, there are yogis in the Himalayas who have been meditating in caves for 40 years. What good are they doing in the world? Who knows? Okay. That's my answer. I don't know if that answers your question. What was this originally about? What it means to dissolve your desires? Okay. It was good. Okay. Right. So I think it will lead to less suffering. But the interesting thing, the reason people get scared about it is because as we dissolve our desires, we also lose some things that give us a compass in life, like ambition. Sure. I think I probably would agree with that. People reframe a lot of things negatively that are probably actually important parts of society. So for instance, feeling negative when your peers judge you or feeling competitive or a pressure to do something socially is probably an important part of the human experience in terms of building societies because we want to feel like we can pressure people to act in certain ways, stuff like that. Right? Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I think one of the biggest mistakes we make in our society is assuming that negative emotions are bad. There's a reason why every human being feels anger, feels shame, feels guilt. And it's fascinating because as people move away from their negative emotions, that's actually when they get stuck. Because if you kind of think about it, like I did a YouTube video about this, but it's a fascinating concept that everyone avoids shame, but shame is the most powerful, corrective, motivating force in you as a human being. And so when you start suppressing shame, you literally neuroscientifically lose out on the ability to learn from mistakes and adapt to circumstances. Yeah, I agree. There's a quote that I had when I was a Starcraft 2 player 13 years ago, but the quote was like to achieve perfection is to sacrifice growth. And the idea is that if you don't feel an impetus to change or to improve or do something, then you've essentially cut yourself off from any motivating forces to actually change or be better. So yeah, I think I would agree with that. So the interesting thing is that as you dissolve more desires, you become more free and you can end up choosing to act compassionately, which is usually what happens. That's good. So I think getting rid of ambition is only scary until you discover that there are other compasses and most people want the compass instead of ambition, because ambition is like relentless. And it kind of drives you as opposed to you controlling it. I'm feeling... Yeah. No, God. The freedom to choose is liberating. And oftentimes when people are truly free to choose, they make the right choices. Okay. My second monitor is here, so I'm looking at you, but it looks like I'm not looking at you. Just so you know, though. You're right there. Yeah. Okay. Did you want to walk down this road anymore? Do you want to move to another area? Or... Well, did I answer your question? Something that would... This is very difficult for me. I think something that would help push me along a little bit, it's very hard for me to find role models since my job and everything I do is so unique. It's really hard to find people in the world that I would go like, oh, this guy is doing something I want to be more like him. I think that when you give me this kind of overarching dissolution of desires, the freedom to choose better paths, oftentimes the path that you choose post dissolution will be better than the more hard line road you run. Prior to that, it would be interesting if there were people that I could look at that were achieving or accomplishing in my arena, those types of things that had made those decisions. Does that make sense? Something you're telling me is the ambition driver, the ambition engine might feel good because it pushes and pushes and pushes, but that if you could dissolve everything underneath that and then make other choices, it might be better. But obviously intellectually and emotionally, I'm very tied to that ambition engine. It's hard for me to... I'm hearing what you're saying, but there's a lot of disbelief without me being able to find somebody in the world and go like, oh, that person did that. And I see they're doing... I aspire to that. I want to aspire to that. So it pushed me in that direction. Does that make sense? Is that what I'm saying? Yeah. So do you... I'm getting kind of this tacit idea that I need someone to... Not need, but if I set a role model for myself, it helps motivate my behavior. It could. Or if there's a particular habit that's good, I like to see the proof of concept of that, I guess. So if somebody tells me something like, oh, you met me a year ago and I told you that I was going to read one book a week, and then they talk to me about the 52 different books they read last year just because they found some novel way to work reading into their schedule. Maybe they read two pages after every League of Legends game. If I see that, then in my life, I'd be like, holy crap, this guy has a really good outcome. He had a really cool process for doing it. I'm going to copy that. That's such a good... That's kind of what I'm thinking. Yeah. So when you're talking about the dissolution thing, I'd be curious to see that kind of... I don't know who you would consider a good role model. I don't think that... So the only thing that comes to my mind is my own experience with my own journey, but I don't think that I am an appropriate role model for you. I think we're colleagues, and I'm happy to share what that experience looked like for me. The reason that I'm advocating for it is because I think it has been profoundly positive in my life. Okay. Can you... Actually, so then I'm kind of curious for however much you're obviously comfortable sharing. You have, from everything that I've seen, you've got an awesome family, you've got an awesome company, and you do really cool stuff online. How do you balance out... Yeah, how do you balance out? What's the emotional decision? Somebody comes to you with an offer or an ability to expand your business twofold. You've got an opportunity to do this, but it might come at significant cost to your family. What does the process look like for you? How do you even begin to have that internal dialogue? Yeah, so I can share my own experience. So to begin with, I wanted to be big when I was growing up. I wanted to be an important person. I grew up Indian. An Indian diaspora in the United States means that you've got a couple of career choices. There's a very strong founder effect, so there's serious brain drain. So all the Indian kids... So I grew up in a city where there were five people my age in the whole city. There were five Indian people in my grade in the whole city. Three of us became doctors. So that's like... It's just staggering. So I grew up with this culture that was very education-focused, achievement-focused, not tiger parents, but that's just kind of the culture. My parents were very loving and supportive. And so I grew up in... When I was 15 or 16, I told people I wanted to be a doctor, and they got impressed with that because, oh, Alok is such a smart boy. And then that fed my ego. And then when I went to UT, I was a freshman and I majored in pre-med, and I was like, I'm going to be at the top of my class. And where did I want to go to med school? I wanted to go to med school at Harvard because that's where all the Indian kids want to go. And so when that ambition was my primary driving force, I found that it could not conquer the other parts of myself because there was a part of me that wanted to play for 16 hours a day. And so those two parts would fight. And because of whatever, on some days I would study and on some days I wouldn't. And certainly not good enough to get into any medical school for that matter. So that changed when I went to India and I sort of discovered a different way of looking at myself and understanding where my ambition comes from. And you, real quick, how old were you when you went to India? 21. 21. And then, so I then decided to become a monk. But that too was actually the same driving forces, what I later discovered, is that I had concluded logically that I can't compete with these kids. There's no way I'm going to be able to achieve my goals and what I want, and I'm basically a failure at life. So what I did is I did this really interesting ego trick where I started devaluing that which I could not have. OK. Right? Oh, like all these kids are materialistic and they're shallow and they all want to make lots of money and drive fancy cars and things like that. I'm going to rise above that and become spiritual. So I'm going to have this ego. Super common, yeah. Huh? I was going to say that's super common, yeah. When somebody can't have something, they start to say, well, actually that sucks anyway, and this has been way better and blah, blah, blah. Right. So I kind of went down that road and then thankfully my teachers recognized that my desire to become a monk was not genuine. It was escapism. So they didn't take me, but they continued teaching me. And then the big irony is at some point I gave up on my dreams. I was like, there's no fucking way. I graduated with a 2.5 GPA, applied to med school for two years, got 110 rejections, sorry, 80-something rejections, applied my third year, got another 20, 30, 40 rejections. And at that point, like in that, after my second year, I had kind of this formative moment where I started thinking about, okay, like, what do I want? And then I changed the way that I started looking. It's not about desire or anything like that. Like I kind of let go of all that stuff. And I was like, my teachers told me to do something, so I'm going to do it out of like faith, not out of personal desire or ambition or anything like that. I trust these people and they said, do this, so I'm going to do this. And even when everyone else- Can I ask you a question about that? Yeah. Yeah. So you coming from the US and you being really ambitious and then you kind of like changing your ambitions to different things, why were you in a state where you would trust those teachers or what do you think made it that you were like, you know what, I'm going to put aside my ego a little bit and trust these guys instead of just like, you know what, screw these guys, they're dumb. I'm going to go back and follow my own stuff. So I would say that if you are a GSL champion in Starcraft and you queue up against someone who just installed the game, this is what my interactions with them were like. They just crushed- Okay. They were competitive, but they just bodied me like every single time. They understood so much about me that I did not understand and they taught me all of that stuff about myself. Okay. Right? So they basically bought the, they'd earned the respect with their- Oh, absolutely. With just the knowledge and the ability. Yeah. Okay. So they like helped me understand like how to live, like these fundamentals, because we don't teach that. We don't teach people how their mind works. And then the other cool thing is they never asked me to have faith or trust in them. My teachers were good. They also recognized that what I needed was questions, not answers. They also did a good job of answering whatever questions I had, which in many spiritual traditions is like not very good. So it didn't matter how hard the question was that I asked, they like basically always had a good answer. And so based on that, I was like, okay, these people know what they're talking about. And I think there's a lot of legitimacy to this. I also in that process started to trust more into it because I started looking into the science. I was skeptical of all this meditation stuff when I started. I didn't believe it. I thought it was all BS. And then I got my first research position studying complementary alternative medicine. And that was a very formative experience for me too. This is all roundabout way of saying like, as I gave up on my ambitions and just focused on let's call it being a better person or accomplishing whatever, like a different kind of internal compass, I actually floated to the top of like the competitive pool. And then my ambitions re-emerged when I actually started. So I did medical school at Tufts and then I matched at psychiatry at Harvard and Mass General and McLean, which are like the best programs in the country. I'm sure other people will disagree. UCLA is really good. Stanford is really good. Yale is really good. Hopkins is really good. A lot of great programs. But based on the academic status ladder, whatever, those were the top programs in the country. And so I kind of found myself there. And then one thing that I quickly realized is I actually like, I'm not like these people. So I remember like being in the line to get coffee at 4 p.m. with a fellow intern of mine. And he was an internal medicine intern. And man, like I was just talking to him about like medicine and like what he knew was just mind boggling. Like he was just so brilliant. And that was my experience. that people here are just like absurdly brilliant. And I didn't even have imposter syndrome. I think it would have had I would have had imposter syndrome if I didn't understand how to do this stuff with my mind. So I was like, all right, I ended up here anyway. So like even if I don't belong, whatever. And then I actually like once again sort of leaned in on a different kind of compass of, OK, what do I want? And then my desires started emerging again because I started to get prominence. I started to achieve things there. I started to float to the top in some places, even in those institutions. And then I started to get ambitious. And then I started a private practice. And I had people coming to my office for my help who were CEOs of major companies and billionaires and things like that. And I was like, all right, this is what the goal is, right? It's to like become an expert, become the best in the world at something and have people come to your office and pay you or companies pay you piles of money to go out there and and share your wisdom, which is like exactly what I wanted to do. And then I sort of realized a little bit after that that this is silly, like this is the same stupid ambition and that there is actually a class of people out there that need help just as much or even more who no one is helping. No one is even listening to. No one is even talking to. And those are degenerates on Twitch. Yeah. OK, before we move here, can I ask you a challenging question? Yeah. I'm curious. So my interactions with you are fairly limited, but I've seen a lot of your stuff. We've spoken a lot. My perception of you is you're an incredibly intelligent individual. I'm sure part of that has been through your upbringing. Part of that is probably your parents are probably smart. I'm sure there's a mixture there. Do you think that you went through the path that you did and rather than kind of like gunning for the top and being ultra ambitious and being obsessed with the prestige, you did a lot of work to kind of like discover or build yourself up as a character. And then the other stuff kind of came as a byproduct of that self-improvement, that mental like self-improvement. Do you think that the same process would work to make most people successful if they weren't exceptionally bright or intelligent? So say you take a kid. Absolutely. OK, yeah, OK. Yeah. You think so? Give me your example. Yeah, I was going to say, say you take a kid who drops at a height. I'm giving an extreme one, but 16, 17, reads at a fourth or fifth grade reading level, not very bright, doesn't have very many interests or hobbies. And this kid's like, you know what, I'm going to go discover myself mentally. Do you think that this person would benefit in the same way that you did from that type of mental self-discovery? I do not think anything is 100 percent, but I feel 100 percent confident in that strategy. And here's why. So what do you think I gained in that process? So if I have a character sheet, what do you think that got me? Do you think it got me XP? Do you think it got me skill proficiencies? Like, how do you conceptualize what I went through? Because you're saying like, what you say is like, OK, is it predicated on your inborn talent? We'll get to that in a second. That's kind of what I'm hearing your question. A little bit, yeah, the way that I would frame it is or the way that I would see it is we kind of I think as we grow up in a society, even like the bumper bowling, I imagine. Right. What does that mean? Do you know what bumper bowling is? Never mind. I'm so sorry. But like a lot of people have kind of like different rails or different restrictions on them. It's where you go bowling. But instead of gutters, they've got bumpers there for like four year olds. So you can't go on the gutter. Not relevant. But yeah, that you grow up, you've got a lot of restrictions. You've got to kind of you get a lot of thought patterns from society. You get a lot of like direction from people around you. And I guess going to a different environment with these guys allowed you to kind of like shed a lot of those societal expectations, a lot of those dispositions you had, and just let you really explore and build and work on yourself. And then once you kind of like fully fleshed out and understand yourself, you're able to reengage with society and then explore those things. Yeah, that would be perfect. Right. So now my question to you is, so like we all go through life with the instrument of our body, our mind, and I'm going to toss this word out there because I think it's complete. We can talk about this if you want to. And our soul. OK? So we go through the world, always with us. Like you're like when you're playing a first person game here. And you can't ever zoom out of it. Like you're you. And so what I learned in India and why I think it doesn't matter what your IQ is, and I've got evidence of sorts, but we'll talk about that in a second, is that all I learned was how I work. So it's like if you don't know how a keyboard works, how effective are you going to be at typing? If you are blind to a keyboard, if you are numb to your internal environment. And there are studies that show that there are six or seven neuroscientific deficits that lead to addiction. And one of them is a lack of awareness of your internal environment. And what this clinically looks like is someone will say, I don't know what happened. I slipped up. No, there's a whole series of subconscious stressors, pressures, willpower, degradation, lack of sleep. There's a thousand things that are going on which is responsible for your behavior on this particular day. We're just blind to it. So I think that, you know, anytime we're numb or blind to and think about just think about this for a second. If I am numb or blind to the driving forces, which doesn't mean they stop driving, it just means I'm not aware of them. And then what happens is actually exactly what you did with this conversation, which is I have this conflict between these two things, and I'm not trying to shit on you here, but it's a great example. I have a conflict between these two things. And what is the logical answer? But the real answer that I'm offering, because this is my perspective, it's my bias, it's my experience, is that if you understand the origin of those two perspectives, it's not about which one is right. It's about where does this come from, and that that has very real utility. And this is where if you want to talk about evidence, so like from an anecdotal perspective, this is what I advocate for people like my patients and my clients and things like that. It's what I advocate to my kids. And I think that those people tend to be pretty happy. They tend to have good outcomes. Sometimes those outcomes are scary, like makes me wonder whether I'm making a mistake and I've sought supervision around that. So for example, like 30% of people who come into my office within 12 to 18 months will change their job. And so I started getting scared about like, am I biasing these people and pushing these people to make a change? Because that shouldn't be happening. And then what I sort of ended up concluding is that as we start this process, what people realize is that they start shedding their conditioning or their socialization, or living a life of shoulds and start gravitating towards what they want, they start changing their jobs. And they tend to be like predominantly happy after that process and oftentimes paradoxically even more successful. And then there's also, I mean, if you look at now, we can talk about real evidence, because my anecdotal experience ain't worth much, honestly, if we look at it scientifically. We look at real evidence. We can look at studies on mindfulness, on meditation, on developing narrative, on healing trauma. And I haven't seen any evidence, maybe it's out there, but that this only works for people who are very talented. In fact, the whole point of mindfulness and the reason that we have it as an evidence-based intervention as a part of psychotherapy is it works for people on the autism spectrum. It works for people with Down syndrome. It works for people with low IQ, high IQ, men, women, old, young. It works for everybody because it's a fundamental facet of our wiring and it's how our brain works. And when we strengthen our frontal lobes, it helps us with impulse control. That's like a neuroscientific fact. So I don't think that, I mean, I'm happy to be challenged. I think it's a great question, but I don't think it's specific to me. Okay. Yeah, no, I was just curious what your answer would be. I mean, I think I probably agree. I think if you take a person that is underachieving at school and then they become more introspective, self-reflective, and get a greater understanding of themselves, it's harder to imagine that their life doesn't also significantly improve in other ways. Because my guess would probably be that those people that are in those bad situations are probably more inhibited than an average person when it comes to those introspective things. So opening that up would help them. That's a brilliant assumption that you're making because that's like literally what happened in my case, what we see a lot, right? So the worse your situation is, if we think about what is the effect on a human being of a bad situation, it hurts. And then our instinctive response when something hurts is to numb it. Because we haven't been taught how to fix it. So then we ignore it. And then what we actually see is people in bad situations are more introspectively blind. Let me think about that. I don't think that's an evidence-based statement, but that's my opinion. Sure. I can imagine it being the case that depending on the negative situations you grow up in, you examine negative behavior, it becomes normalized, and then you unleash that behavior into the world, and you lose the ability to even analyze introspectively if it's good or bad in the way because it's just what you've always seen or something like that. Sure. Okay. I think it's worked for me. Now, I think there's also a couple things to notice. I mean, the path that I'm on is financially less than the path that I used to be on. So there are costs. And then in terms of how do I navigate that, I really think about what's the point of money. And it's not a way of keeping score. I mean, sure, I could buy more stuff, but I'm a degenerate gamer. What do I need money for? Yeah, no, I know what you mean. Some amount of security and stuff is really important. And that's also where when I think about it, being freed of my internal drivers, I can make a logical decision about how much do I want to do for free. So even if you look at the pricing in my private practice, there was one point where 50 to 70% of my patients were free care. And my financial situation was fine because I charged enough to the other 30 to 50%. And I had a uniform financial policy, which was, this is what my rate is, pay what you can. Okay. I think some of those kind of, the dust kind of settles. Once you're internally, your compass is set, then you can logically think through stuff and it kind of settles. Okay, that makes sense. I think I have a similar idea. I don't know how well I follow it, but I have a similar idea kind of to what you're saying. I think in the business world, have you ever heard the term first principles? I've heard the term. I don't know what it means. Just basically, what are you orienting yourself towards? What are you about? What are you trying to do? And what you're saying is, anytime somebody would come for advice, I don't know where do I want to go to college, what do I want to do for a job, blah, blah, blah. Kind of like what you're saying. Those questions are never really important. The important question is, well, what do you want to accomplish or who do you want to be in five or ten years or whatever? And then once you have those very fundamental questions figured out, all the other questions become pretty simple. I think what you're saying about figuring out the internal area of what does it mean to take a pill or where does self-judgment come from or anything like that, if I've figured out those types of things, then the questions about medication are not really difficult questions at all. They kind of fall into line very simply. Yeah, and I think that that's... So there's scientific support of that. So part of the reason I started a coaching program was because I thought that some of these things, like coming down to first principles, were not emphasized in the mental health space. So just one example of that is the number one variable that correlates with vulnerability of pornography addiction is meaninglessness in life. Okay. But if we sort of think about it, we actually have evidence-based approaches to cultivate purpose and meaning and direction, which are all introspective. Okay. And so what happens if you look at the literature on positive psychology, when you cultivate introspection, the rest of the stuff falls into place. And the whole reason behind purpose, and this is why we teach so much about dharma, is once you have that north star, then stuff starts to fall in place. And the more important thing is that... And then we see these scientific benefits, which is that even though we're not treating pornography addiction, you just have to have a reason to not watch pornography. You have to have something in your life that is guiding you, pushing you, because what happens with pornography addiction or video game addiction is it just fills up the empty space in your life, and it drags you down. Sure. I think there's a lot of antisocial behavior that falls into this. Like when you ask a prep school kid, what did you have to do in your life to not commit armed robbery, they don't really have an answer, because they were going to school in the morning for band practice, they were doing football practice after school, their mom and dad picked them up. There's not even a question of why you would do that, because that kind of thing in your life is filled by so many other things. That just seems to track from what I understand. Yeah. Okay. Did we get to your original concern about... I mean, do you want to talk more about stimulants and kind of outcomes and what to expect and how to think about it? Sure. I have one more big question on that. Sure. Yeah, if you want to, and then you can go from wherever. So another thing that's difficult for me... Okay, we're changing gears significantly. Pre versus post taking some kind of mind-altering medication. Something that's very difficult for me is how do you figure out what is a positive effect of a drug that's helping you live a better life versus what's just like you being high and having a good time? So some real examples I'll give of this is there's a lot of things that seem to overlap in terms of getting high and then also not having ADHD. So I don't know how many of these things are true, but I've read something that sometimes overeating can be a factor when it comes to ADHD people. That if you have a bag of cookies, every time you walk by you want to grab one even if you're not necessarily hungry. And then I notice that if I've had amphetamines, I can have anything in the house and I just won't eat it because I'm not tempted to. But am I actually making a better choice to not do that or am I just too high to want to eat? Oh, neither. So let's understand the neuroscientific mechanism behind why you eat cookies when you have ADHD. This is great. This is like a medical question. So let's understand this. So why do you eat cookies if you're not hungry? So people with ADHD are impulsive, which means that they engage in impulsive behavior. So if you look at even the packaging on a cookie, the packaging on a cookie is designed to evoke an impulse. I'm not saying corporations are evil or anything like that, but it's not my area of expertise. But we all know that corporations design, cookie companies design packages to evoke impulses. And then you have a brain that is vulnerable to impulses in a way that is... So normally what happens in the brain is we have all kinds of integration of signals. So you have, for example, a glucagon level and a leptin level and a ghrelin level. And all of these levels, insulin, glucagon, leptin, and ghrelin, are all in some fucking tango to tell you when to eat a cookie. So what happens in the case of ADHD is it's kind of like an impulsive behavior. Since it's around and there's an environmental trigger and a sensory input before you even realize what you're doing, and you don't even realize it's not a conscious choice, it's just an impulse that you give into because your capacity to restrain impulses is low. So this is why, for example, people with ADHD benefit from clean areas because what you really want to do is extend... So the key thing about impulses is... Let me just think about how to say this. So if you're someone with ADHD and you're struggling with impulsive behavior, the main thing that you need to understand is that the impulse is not sustained. It's an impulse. So what you really need to do, if you get distracted, is you need to ride out the impulse. So what's happening, the reason people in our society are getting fucked right now by ADHD, is because our society is greasing the wheels for impulsive behavior. So this used to have a lock code, and now it has a thumbprint, now it has face ID. So if an impulse lasts half a second, I can pick up the phone. And the phone remembers which website, now I have a notification too. So I have an impulse for one second, and in that second what can happen? I can look at the phone, the phone auto-unlocks, I don't even have to try to unlock it. I just have to point the phone at my face, and then it auto-unlocks, I see a notification, I click on the impulse, there go 30 minutes. So what happens with stimulant medication is we are restraining the impulsiveness. Which I don't think that you're making, you weren't making conscious decisions in either case. Your brain is processing that a cookie is there, it's just the impulse is controlled by whatever other directed behavior you have. Gotcha. Okay. Emotionally it's hard to process that, but intellectually it makes sense. Yeah. So what makes it hard for you to emotionally process that? This is great, things are coming full circle. Well because intellectually everything you're saying makes sense. I feel like as people, I think we tend to think of ourselves as being more cognitive than we actually are. So things like impulses don't fit into our cognitive understandings of ourselves. Like why would I do something on an impulse? I'm choosing to do every single thing I'm doing. So the idea that now I'm not making a really bad choice, but it's not a choice, it's just an impulse that I'm not acting on. It's just a hard thing to emotionally intuit for me, I guess. Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense, but I think it like, so let me tell you what I heard, okay? You said, is this, am I not eating because I'm high versus the ADHD? So like, what is the emotional valence of each of those options? Does that question make sense? Yeah, it's full circling back to the original question of, I guess of like the character question kind of, or am I... So let's say one of those things is true. How do you feel about yourself? Yeah, there's a different judgment. Absolutely. Like if I'm not eating, yeah exactly. In both cases it's a negative judgment. Well... You see that? Because on the one hand, oh yeah, oh fuck, right? Fucking Steven is taking his fucking high pills, and sure he's not eating cookies, which would be progress, but why aren't we eating cookies? Because we're fucking high. You see that? Well there's one, so like, yeah I understand what you're saying. I slightly just give it, I understand what you're saying. The difference here is I think I largely have kind of sort of made peace with myself in terms of like taking the drug, but the rationalization in my mind is that like, I think taking the drug is okay, as long as I'm elevating myself to just a baseline level of impulse control. So if it is the case that I'm doing the medication appropriately, and I'm at a baseline level of impulse control, and I'm not doing this, that's good, but if I'm like overshooting, and I'm just like abusing drugs, that's the bad part. Right, right. So what I'm saying is like think about, so the study is rigged. Like I know that you've reconciled it, that's fine, but what I'm saying is this shit is still lurking. Because what was... so when you gave me... okay you gave me two options, right? Option number one is like, I've got ADHD, and that's why I'm eating cookies. And option number two is I stopped eating cookies, but why does your mind generate such a judgmental hypothesis for option two? Well if it's because I'm just super high, then it's just because I'm abusing drugs to shortcut like the growth in character that I should have to stop. But do you see how, like out of the thousand things that you could have said, there's a thousand, there's a differential diagnosis, there are a thousand hypotheses why you're not eating the cookies. Which one does your mind settle on? Well obviously the drug, right? Right, so that's coming from you. Do you see what I'm saying? Like that thing is still active. Well, but I mean I am doing it, right? That's part of my reality. But that's what I'm kind of saying is you're doing it and you've reconciled on an intellectual level, but that part of you that is frustrated with yourself for being weak, which by the way is, if I had to bet money, right? So this is the most common thing if you look at research on this. People with ADHD have harsh self-judgements. And so the way that the self-judgment manifests in your mind is by, it's like a study bias. Like the options that it generates for you are rigged. The reason, am I too high to, no, you're not too high. I mean I don't think so. So we also know for example that stimulant medication suppresses appetite. One of the major concerns about giving it to kids is that it can interfere with things like growth and stuff like that. Which thankfully it's not too bad. But there could be a neuroscientific, but I wouldn't characterize it as high, but that's what I mean. You pick such a judgmental characterization as an option, which I think is significant. Sure. I guess it's just because that's the thing I'm trying to avoid, because I know that taking said medication is going to improve my life in these ways, but like if it's too much it's probably... So the things that you're anxious or worried about, that's that emotional energy. And when you say it's a brilliant insight that this is emotionally not sitting with me. And then the question is why? It's because you're emotionally in the opposite direction. Well, let's say that I fix this, okay? What's to prevent me from saying... Okay, so like here, talk me down from this one. And I'm not saying I'm doing this, and this is all hypothetical. Sorry, I'm not asking for medication advice. But let's say theoretically that I solve all these issues, I don't have any negative judgments whatsoever. Forget these things. I'm just going to do 100 mg of methamphetamine every day. Because I have no judgments about this anymore. It improves my life in all these different ways. I'm doing so better here. What's the back away from the cliff there, as opposed to right now where you're saying I'm probably too far in the other direction of being too judgmental? So I would say it's just like any other medication. So you would have a relationship with your stimulant, the same that you do with, let's say, a cholesterol medication. Or antibiotics. I want to hear you rationalize this for me, because I have a hard time figuring this one out. In my mind, I have behavioral modifying medication that works in your brain. I separate that way differently than like insulin. Right, but hold on a second, because what was the premise that we started with? That we dissolved this stuff, right? Okay. So when we dissolve that stuff, it's behavior modifying. So what? There's no emotional energy behind that. I need this medication in the same way that I need cholesterol medication. There's no judgment or attachment to it. But I feel like the difference is that I can't do anything mentally about my triglycerol levels. I can't do anything mentally about my HDL or LDL. I can't think the atoms away. But do you see that your hypothetical is flawed? Because you're injecting your judgment into the hypothetical. Because look, when I tell you, then it becomes just like any... We don't attach any judgments to stimulants. If we dissolve that judgment, we no longer judge things. Then what happens is, then it's just like any other medication. You follow that logically? I follow logically what you're saying, but it feels like it doesn't... So for instance, I could live a day, I could have a day where I'm very focused, and I could do everything I could do on my ADHD medication normally. But I couldn't have a day where I don't take my insulin as a type 1 diabetic. That one of those worlds is possible, one of them is not. The reason that you were... Let me give you a different example, okay? So let's say like cholesterol medication. Now, there are people who can get really upset about their cholesterol medication and having to take it every day. Can you imagine that? No, I've got a family of fucking diabetics, and sometimes I don't even take their fucking insulin, so I'm very aware of that. People are like, you know, like, oh, I should be able to do this through diet, like their body image issues. This is the psychodynamics of psychopharmacology. We have all kinds of attachment to a particular pill. And what you're saying is, this pill, I can understand how you would not have an attachment to, but this other pill logically has attachments for these reasons. No, bro, it's not logical, it's emotional. It's based on your attachment to that particular pill and what that pill means to you. It's not because of the neuro... It's not because of the physiologic thing. That's just what your mind says, right? Because what you're worried about, and this is true of all medication, is like, this is the part of my body that's weak. Yeah, but I feel like we don't feel our brains as our bodies. I think that's like the fundamental difference here. Like, if my heart isn't doing something, I take a medication for my heart. If my lungs, if my kidneys... But you don't view yourself as your brain, that's like you, right? Yeah, that's the difference. Go ahead. Yeah, but when you say we, who is in that we? Well, I was thinking we as humans in general. I think we view ourselves as being our brain, rather than like our brain as an organ in our body that we can medicate. Do you view yourself that way? I probably do, yeah. Right, so I think this is where, like I'm telling you, man, I've worked with plenty of people who do not identify with their brain and identify with their body more. That's really interesting. I almost don't believe that. That's crazy. But okay, that's really interesting to me. Right, so like you can take anyone with body image issues. Who I am is determined... This could also be because you're a dude and I'm a dude. So like we don't get judged as harshly on average. I'm not saying that we don't get judged. And this is balancing out, right? So like it used to be that women had body image issues way more than men do. And when I work with women who have body image issues, they like, you know, a lot of who they are is tied up to their body. And working with... And that's not just one reason for that. I mean, that's evening out, by the way, I think with social media. But then there's like other things that biologically women go through that men don't have an equivalent, like pregnancy and childbirth. So when you go through pregnancy, it makes permanent alterations of your diabetes, your fat distribution. You know, the change to breast tissue is profound. Right, like when they swell and you've got all this stuff, like, I mean, there's definitely people can identify with the body. I think you're quite intellectual. And I think that you would be afraid, you would you would fear losing a chunk of your brain way more than you would fear losing a piece of your hand. Yeah, of course. Right, but if I'm a professional wrestler, like it could be the other way around. So I think the key thing here is your attachment to it, which is the problem. That's my point. And so the problem here is that once you dissolve that attachment, the conclusion that you assume disappears because the reason you infer that is because of your attachment to your brain over your body. I don't know if I lost you there, but... A little bit, or not you lost me a little bit, but I follow you a little bit, or I guess that would mean I did lose a little bit. So in your world, the brain and the body and then like the spirit or the soul or whatever, these things exist all kind of differently from one another. And medicating your heart or medicating your liver or medicating your brain are all essentially the same thing. But I'm coming in with a normative judgment that loads brain medication differently. So all of my questions are kind of fundamentally poisoned. Exactly, right? Because I say then it becomes just like a cholesterol medication. And what's your response? You say, no, it doesn't. And then I ask you, why is it different? And then you're like, well, because my brain is different from body. And I'm like, well, hold on a second. That is where you're inserting your judgment. So if we're really presuming that you've metabolized this stuff, then it does become that. And I've seen that process many times, by the way. So like when we work with the psychodynamics of psychopharmacology, people like taking their SSRI or their antidepressant medication. There's all kinds of psychotherapy that you have to do around that. What does it mean to take? I'm dependent on this medication for my fundamental happiness in life. Oh, my God, I don't want to take happy pills. Like this isn't like ADHD where we know that the brain is different. Like this is just depression. Right? With ADHD, these people are neurodivergent. Their brain is wired differently. But me, I was fine for the first 25 years of my life. And then something happened and I became weak. Even those people will say ADHD medication is OK, but depression medication isn't. So it all has to do with your attachment to theby attachment, I'm using it in an Eastern sensethe meaning that you associate with that thing. And what I'm hearing through and through is that you associate a lot of meaning and you adapted beautifully and cognitively, reframed beautifully. Whoever's prescribing this shit did a great job. Because you're taking it, sounds like you're adherent, you're doing all this other stuff. And by the way, there's a very simple answer to your question of how do I knowI think you asked a question about I see a lot of really positive outcomes and I don't know, is this like the medication is working and now, Stephen Bonnell, I'm making good choices or am I just really high and now I can do problems? So that's where, if I'm teaching a med student class, there's a really simple answer to that. That's why we have measurable scientific validated instruments. What do you mean by that? For ADHD? Yeah. So for example, we will track symptoms. So how do we know if it's the medication that's working or you're making good choices? Well, first of all, you have to remember that making good choices is a complex neuroscientific process, which the medication working could meanit helps people make good choices. That's literally what the medication does. It corrects whatever weaknesses or supplements, whatever weaknesses there are in the brain that prevent these people from making good choices. Now, there's a whole complicated thing there. So some people will consider ADHD medication to be like glasses. It doesn't fix the problem, but as long as your glasses are on, your eyesight is normal. I think it's a good analogy. But I think there's all kinds of problems with that perspective. So, and if you look at the data on ADHD medication, there's some data that shows that the effect lingers for three to six months after you stop the medication. So there are other things going on with taking the medication that could have to do with things like developing healthy habits. Habits, yeah, that's one big thing that I've read. Right. So that's because the habits, I mean, the neurotransmitters for the habit circuitry in the location in the brain are completely different. The real tragedy in ADHD is that since you are impulsive, you never get the ability to develop habits, which is a real tragedy because the one thing that can protect you against your ADHD is the endocannabinoid system that is habits. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Other questions? No, I don't think so. Okay. I wanted to share one or two things. Yeah, whatever you want, yeah. So when people think about ADHD, like I just wanted to like share how I understand what is effective about ADHD medication, what it does and what it doesn't do. Okay. Okay. So if we look at ADHD medication, we have to understand that the problems that people with ADHD have come from two places. They come from the neurodivergence of the brain, let's just call it that, and they come from living a life with neurodivergence. So there are these social impacts that come from basically having untreated or undiagnosed ADHD. So, you know, my favorite statistic about this is that oftentimes people won't have friends, so like kids with ADHD, by the time they hit the second grade, they stop getting invited to birthday parties. So they have difficulty socializing, you know, because they can't function well in school, their academic achievement goes down. This is why there is a causative impact in terms of depression later in life. It also creates the things that, you know, I kind of see with a lot of people, which is a lot of harsh self judgment, a lot of I should be able to do this. This medical illness is different from all the other medical illnesses, and let me give you all the logical reasons why. You can't directly interact with your heart. You can't directly lower your triglycerides level. By the way, you can, but that's a conversation for a different day. When I said do it, I mean like think it down. Yeah, you can think it down. Oh boy, okay. Okay, I believe you. So it's wild, man. Okay. So, and anyway, it doesn't disable your point. It's just, you know. And so when we're thinking about ADHD medication, like what's the goal here? And that's where I think we've got to understand two things. One is that even some of the trauma induced consequences of growing up with ADHD will create ADHD symptoms. Impairment and concentration, difficulty focusing, difficulty with emotional regulation. If you look at the symptomatology of trauma and the symptomatology of ADHD, they overlap. And the real problem that we see with ADHD is when you grow up with ADHD and you get traumatized because you recognize you're just as smart as everyone else, but you can't fucking do it. It's so easy. They're just sitting there and looking at a book and reading it. That's literally what reading is, is just looking at a book. You can fucking sit there and look at a book, but you can't read the words. And so you feel incompetent. And as you grow up with that ADHD, you start to experience various micro traumas or even macroscopic traumas. Parents getting mad at you, why are you like this? You just need to study, you need to try harder. I used to get called into my teacher's office once a semester for my parent teacher conference and they'd say, if he just applied himself, he'd do so well. He's got so much potential. And so that kind of stuff creates its own kind of trauma induced cognitive deficits. And then if we look at treatment of ADHD, stimulants can correct neurodivergence, but all that other stuff is not going to get corrected with stimulants. And some of those things, some of the other consequences that happen when we grow up with ADHD is we develop, we fail to develop adaptations. So we get worse at developing like emotional regulation techniques and things like that. And the adaptations that we do develop growing up as a neurodivergent kid in a neurotypical world become maladaptations later in life. We're also more vulnerable to things like addictions and stuff like that. So when we look at stimulant medication, a lot of it doesn't get fixed, which confuses a lot of people. A lot of it does. If we look at stimulant medication, most of the research of the meta-analyses suggest that starting it early to prevent all of these psychological impacts will be protective in the long run and lead to better outcomes in terms of lifelong achievement, academic success, etc., etc. Because this is what you've got to understand is you can have ADHD with certain cognitive deficits and untreated ADHD plus cognitive deficits plus failing out of school, what does that do to someone's psychological trajectory, their life trajectory? There's recently a study that showed that the majority of reasons that people are depressed today have nothing to do with like internal feelings or their relationships. They have everything to do with circumstances in their life. Lack of financial stability, living at home, whatever, other kinds of things. Their life objectively sucks. And so when we're thinking about ADHD medication and whether to do it or not do it, I think this is what you really need to think about is that it's not going to fix everything, but it'll prevent a lot of damages, which is usually why we will medicate kids with ADHD if we choose to. And that even if you start medication as an adult, it's not going to fix everything because there are the consequences of growing up with ADHD that need to be addressed. The last thing to consider is that the effect size of ADHD medication is basically the same or slightly inferior to psychotherapy. And this kind of circles back to like, can I do it without medication? The answer is probably yes, but it takes a concerted effort, which a lot of people don't have the bandwidth for. And there's also data that shows that medicating someone with ADHD makes the effect of psychotherapy much less effective. And so I think that's a good thing to consider. And the other thing to consider is that the effect of psychotherapy is better. So when you have someone who can pay attention in psychotherapy, they get a greater effect size. The other cool thing is that the effect of psychotherapy lingers for years after the completion of treatment compared to months for ADHD medication. You've got to do what's right for you and everyone's got to do what's right for them. I think that there's a lot of very real shame and judgment that kids with ADHD develop and then carry into adulthood. And that if you really want to conquer this problem, I think it's usually like a combination of like all the above. So medication, if that's what works for you, psychotherapy, if you have the time and energy for it. And just as a prescriber myself, the primary reason I prescribe medication is when people don't have time to do everything else. Because I think there are very few cases where, at least in psychiatry, we really need medication. Like in most cases, psychotherapy is just as effective as whatever we're prescribing. Okay. So I think those are just a couple of considerations. Okay. Cool. Yeah. Thank you so much for coming on today. Yeah, thanks for having me. It's always fun to chat. Likewise. And good luck with all of your endeavors. And yeah, I really encourage you to continue exploring down. I'm sure you will. But really, like, trying to get to the root of this stuff. And I'm so curious about your personal take on spirituality and stuff like that. Because I think you're primed for it. More so now. More so now than before is absolutely true. But that might be from like one to six out of a hundred. But maybe, yeah. Yeah, okay. More primed than before. Are you going to TwitchCon? Or do you not say that publicly? No, I'm not going to TwitchCon. Oh, okay. Well, nevermind. Are you going to TwitchCon? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I'm not going this year. I've got other stuff. I'm doing, I think, one thing. It's next week, right? The 20th to the 22nd, I think, yeah. Yeah. I'm actually going on a spiritual retreat. Oh, well, good for you. So much better than the rest of us. Wow. I'll be enjoying my vanity and vagueness. I love TwitchCon. No, you're good. Okay. Well, that's cool. Well, good for you. Yeah. Wait, when you do those, do you not only do those with your, do you take any family members with you? Or is it you or your wife? Or is that like always like a just- This time I'm going alone and this is the first time that I've gone in 12 years. Wow. How long is the retreat for? Five days. Cool. So it's been, thankfully I got enough to, I mean, I have a spiritual practice that's pretty set. Always interested in learning more. But it's just with medical training and streaming and all that kind of stuff, like that kind of took a step on the back burner. And now I've got enough time to do that kind of thing. When you do your spirituality stuff, do you get to, do you ever maintain contact with the people that you felt like helped you in your early 20s? The guys you said you went over and studied with, or are you kind of like not talking to those people anymore? I'm not talking to those people anymore. For the most part. I, it's interesting. It's interesting. So I think the person who's the closest to what I would describe as a guru, I basically only had contact with them for two years. And for a while it was very hurtful because it kind of felt like they ghosted me and I don't know what happened. Gotcha. Whatever. Okay. Cool. Hey, I appreciate the talk. Yeah. I say shout out to myself. I think most of my audience knows who you are. But yeah, where can they find you if they're looking for more cool stuff or projects you're working on? Or if you could direct people to one link or one thing, where would you send people? Yeah. So I think since we're talking about ADHD, we have, so like part of what we built at HG, we build different kinds of resources and stuff. We've got a ton of videos that I think are pretty good on YouTube about ADHD. But we also have like a guide where I go through kind of like in a more comprehensive way, like practices, meditation techniques and things like that. And I also have a guide on that to specifically understand the different parts of ADHD and how to really overcome them. So they can check out Dr. K's guide and then I stream on YouTube and Twitch. And yeah, check us out at Healthy Gamer Gigi. And likewise, where can we find you, Stephen? Destiny. Destiny, yeah. On YouTube, Kik, maybe Twitch again someday and Instagram. And then is there anything that you're going to be doing coming up that we should tune into? Is there anything that you're excited about in terms of podcasts or collabs or debating anyone cool? My most exciting thing is finally, I think it's the 20th or the 21st next month, I finally do my Ben Shapiro debate. That should be fun. Oh, wow. That's awesome, man. Yeah. That's, I'd love to do that. You said 20th of next month, so November. I think the 20th or the 21st, yeah. That should be fun. Where is that going to be? Do you know where we can, I assume it's going to be live and stuff, right? I have no idea yet. I think Lex Friedman wants to do it in a studio, so it might be like all prerecorded. We might do it live. I'm not sure yet. All right, so I'm just trying to figure out where I find a watch party. Yeah, that'll be, it'll be, it'll make the rounds, I'm sure. All right, cool, man. Well, good luck to you on your debate. I look forward to it. And thanks for coming on today. Take care, man. Thanks for sharing with me. Bye. All right. That was great. Questions, people? Yeah. So, you know, Destiny's great. I think he's, you know, I know that not everyone likes him, which I think is completely fair. I think it's fair to criticize people, right? And to not like certain things about him. I appreciate how, I mean, in my conversation, I think it's fair to criticize people, right? And to not like certain things about him. I appreciate how, I mean, in my conversation with him, he comes across as quite open-minded and willing to consider alternative perspectives. And so I respect that. I like talking to him, which is fun. And I like talking to a lot of different people. And part of, I think what we try to do here is, as far as I can tell, we don't support a particular political philosophy or, I know sometimes people think we support one gender, like today. I mean, I'm pro-human, for what that's worth, but I'm sure that everyone who supports a particular political ideology or has a bias says the same thing, right? I'm objectively fair, and everybody else is biased and pro-something. So if you all see some kind of bias or whatever in the work that we do, please let us know. And we've actually seen that a lot, especially around gender dynamics. The big irony there is that if we do stuff that is geared towards men, women in our community get upset. And if we do something that's geared towards women, men in our community get upset. And we're going to try to help everybody. That's just part of our ethos. I'm anti-animals. I don't think so. Right? So that's the ethos of the work that we do. And when it comes to the gender stuff, I think men understanding women is very important for men. And I think that's just part of our ethos. I'm anti-animals. I don't think so. Right? So that's the other thing, is I don't know, like, we're being pro-something defaulted to becoming anti-something. Right? And when it comes to the gender stuff, like, I think men understanding women is very important for men. And I think women understanding men is very important for women. In general. How do you understand the relationship with virtue and emotional regulation? I consider them to be somewhat independent. I consider them to be somewhat independent. I consider them to be somewhat independent. But if we look at some of these virtues, like if we say patience is a virtue and duty is a virtue, oftentimes pursuing those virtues will train us in important life skills like emotional regulation. So I'll give you all a simple example of this. So we all know that willpower is a good thing. And then what happens is people will kind of say, like, okay, if willpower is a good thing and I need to be more disciplined, and I need to have more willpower, how do I actually do that? Right? So when I was growing up, my favorite example is my mom would say, Alok, you need to be more disciplined. And then I was like, okay, you start waking up at 7 a.m. every day and you will be more disciplined. And I was like, wait a second, but like, if I could wake up at 7 a.m. every day, then I would be disciplined. Like, I don't understand, you know, it's like a chicken or egg thing. Like, isn't, how do you develop discipline? So the very practical skills that we want to develop around emotional regulation, patience, discipline, willpower, we don't know how to develop those. And people will say things like, oh, you got to take cold showers. So if you look at the science of this, what you discover is that taking cold showers doesn't make you, generally speaking, have a stronger willpower than other people. Because what happens is the first couple times you do it, it requires willpower, and then your body habituates to it. And no longer needs to exert willpower because it's used to it. That's what our body does. So these willpower boosting exercises don't really work that great. So what does work? And this is what's really interesting. So if you look at the practice of yoga, the practice of yoga starts with two things, yamas and niyamas. Yamas are personal observances, and niyamas are societal observances. And my favorite example of this is satya, which means truth. So when you develop a virtue, the really interesting thing is that you will develop all kinds of cognitive and neuroscientific skills as a consequence of the virtue. And people may be kind of confused by that, like how does that work? So we don't know how to develop willpower. It turns out the way that you develop willpower is not by developing willpower. The way that you develop willpower is by committing to truthfulness. And you will say, well, hold on a second, what do you mean? Does that mean that people who are honest are better? Let's understand it neuroscientifically. So if I commit to not lying, what does that mean about my life? If I can't lie, let's say scientifically I was no longer capable of lying, how would it change what I eat? How would it change what I do? How would it shape my life if I could not lie? And someone asks me, hey, what did you have for lunch today? Oh, I had McDonald's. I feel embarrassed saying that. I can't lie, and I don't want to say that, so what do I end up doing? I'm going to eat something healthy, so that when people ask me when I go into lunch today, what do I eat? I'm going to eat a burger with my colleagues, and everyone's like, what did you have for lunch today? I have to tell the truth. If you are forced to tell the truth, what kind of life would you live? And when you commit to truthfulness, you start shifting your life to accommodate for that, because you can't lie anymore. And in that shift is where you develop all the emotional regulation, the discipline, the willpower, because you can't lie anymore. And they have a beautiful technique, and they figured it out so subtly, that when you set your North Star towards a particular virtue, in order to achieve that, you will automatically start leveling up the cognitive and neuroscientific skills that are necessary to improve your life. This is why the pursuit of virtue leads to improvement. This is sort of a spiritual perspective. Now, in some cases, this gets screwed up, because at some point, this stuff gets codified into a religion. And then what happens is people aspire to that thing, but they have like a rigged version of it. They have a very selective interpretation of whatever text they have, instead of committing to the particular virtue. And then in doing so, their ego gets involved, and they don't build any of the cognitive skills and stuff like that. And what that means is you can't fake it, you can't pay lip service to it, you have to really commit to it. And so another good example of this is ahimsa, nonviolence. So in order to commit to nonviolence, to do your best to not hurt another human being or any living organism as best as you can, how does that require you to change your life? So in some cases, ahimsa means vegetarian. And so what would be required for you to not eat meat for 24 hours? It will require you to exert willpower. And the whole point is, since it's so dynamic, and this is what I think people sort of evolutionarily figured out, since we have nonviolence and truthfulness and things like that, there are such dynamic objectives that it's not the repetition of the same behavior. Because being truthful or honest is going to change in different circumstances. And honestly, it's like a cheat code for leveling up the important skills in life, is to commit to a virtue. And I challenge you all to do it. And then sometimes people will be like, not only like, so commit to truthfulness for one week, no lies. Not allowed to lie. Not a single one. Well, what about lies of omission? If you really want to commit to the spirit of it, it's not about the letter of the law. It's like no more lies of omission either. You don't want to be like brutally honest or whatever the fuck, be an asshole. But if someone asks you a question, no, like, did you have lunch? What'd you have? Oh, the usual. You know what I'm talking about. You know when you're, you're in a situation where you're like, you know what I'm talking about. You know when you're being sneaky and when you normally would say more, but you're purposefully not saying it. So I'm not saying walk around and tell everyone exactly what you think about them. Don't do that. But commit to truthfulness for one week and see what happens. See how it shapes your behavior. Not allowed to lie. Right? So there's one other thing. Since we're talking about nonviolence and satya. Sorry, nonviolence, which is ahimsa and satya, which is truthfulness. One thing to understand while we're on this path of truthfulness is we always want truthfulness to be subject to ahimsa. So you should be honest, but compassion should reign supreme. Right? So you should not let your truthfulness harm another human being as best as you can. And so this is kind of the interesting thing is we talk about motivation, meditation as a discreet practice that you do for five or ten minutes. If you really want to understand, so if you look at yoga, right, so this path of meditation that leads to enlightenment. That's what raja yoga is. And the first step is yama and niyama. Second step. The personal observances and the societal observances. So if you all want a societal observance, cleanse yourself. If you want a societal observance, cleanliness. Commit to cleanliness for one week. How does that change your life? And this will become a meditation that you do all day long. It requires you to be in a meditative state all day long. People ask me, do I meditate every day? And the answer is sort of. I will do a formal sitting meditation, but some of this stuff I do constantly. Because what does that mean? If you're committing to truthfulness, no lies. That means you've got to be paying attention every moment you're awake. And to force yourself to pay attention and catch it will strengthen your frontal lobes. It's literally what it is. Right? You're meditating for 15 minutes. I'm giving you a meditation practice that you can do for seven days straight. Commit to truthfulness. As best as you can. And this is where it's like we're not... So the moment you fail, you can restart. Right? So once you fail once, the game is over. You can start another game, but it's not like, oh I lied three times in one week. No. You lied once, game over. Start over tomorrow. Okay? What can I do about skin picking disorder and other body focused repetitive behaviors? Have you spoken about it before? We haven't done too much on it. We've done a couple of lectures on things like OCD. But I'd strongly recommend... I mean so that's where there's good like OCD treatments if it's OCD related, which is my understanding of it usually. But I think get OCD treatment is number one. Is there any correlation between ADHD meds and burnout? You know I haven't seen studies about it, but my guess is damn right there is. So two things. On the one hand, ADHD medication may reduce burnout because they make you more effective at restraining impulses and things like that. On the flip side, ADHD medication in some cases may promote burnout because... How can I say this? When you've grown up with ADHD and you're not able to accomplish much, the limiting factor on your success is never stamina or endurance. Right? You don't ever get a chance to spend 100% because you get distracted, you can't focus, whatever. So when people start to focus with things like ADHD medication, they sometimes don't realize like what their limits are because they're able to work for now six hours at a stretch. So cognitive fatigue can kind of set in, and I see that a lot where there's a real adjustment to the medication. Meditation strengthens frontal lobes? Yes. Okay, so thank you all very much for coming today. I gotta run. It's been awesome streaming four days this week. We are going to be maybe streaming once or twice next week. And then... Oh yeah, and then we've got a question. Can you explain what dharma is? I heard you mention it when I came in. Yeah. So for those of you all that are interested in more resources like this, so first of all, we've got a glossary of terms and stuff, so you all can check out our website, but we have Dr. K's Guide to Meditation as well, where we explain what dharma is, how to cultivate it, what practices to do. So part of the reason that we have the guides is because there are common questions for people who are new. And so if you all want a basic course, if you want to distill, you know, the majority of like Dr. K's stuff into like 12 hours, then check out Dr. K's Guide. That's why it's there. So we have a challenge when we stream, which is that we either go over the basic stuff over and over and over again because there's always new people, because we're always growing. It's a good problem, Matt. But if we want to get to advanced stuff, we need everyone to be able to catch up. And what Dr. K's Guide is, is it's a place for you all to understand these core concepts and how to apply them to your life. Understand kind of my perspective on depression, on anxiety, on meditation and ADHD. And how can you break apart what's going on there? The neuroscience, the psychology, the science, the spirituality, all kind of rolled into one. And then we also have coaching spots available if you all are interested. So as we were talking about with Destiny, like, so I don't know if this kind of makes sense, but you can treat a problem like a pathology, like let's say a mood disorder or an anxiety disorder, or you can build something that protects against it. And you can build something that can protect against it. So a good example of this is, I can give someone treatment for, let's say, high cholesterol or diabetes. And they can do something like exercise. If they do something like exercise, it is going to lead to health outcomes in a variety of dimensions. Even though it is an automatic treatment. They're going to see improvement in blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes, mood. All of those things get improved with exercise. And so what I sort of did is, when I was looking at the emerging problems of the digital age, these problems like pornography addiction, and video game addiction, and social media addiction, I tried to figure out why is this stuff getting so bad. And what I found was that they can be classified as discrete pathologies, but there are some core aspects of life that people are behind on. Like purpose. Because it's hard to find purpose in today's world. Because the establishment, and I'm not like anti-establishment or anything, they're just flaws, right? The establishment is saying, go to college, get a job, and if you're in the US, you end up with a bunch of debt and jobs or whatever. You can't afford a house. There's a certain prescribed formula for success that doesn't work anymore. And so we need to find a new way to discover those things that give us positive momentum in life. And once we have that positive momentum, just like exercise, once we have purpose, motivation, direction, then what we see is the mental health outcomes improve. So purpose is inversely correlated with pornography addiction. The more purpose you have in your life, the less likely you are to have problems with pornography. That's what our focus is on. It's on focusing on these core aspects like EQ, emotional awareness, communication skills. These are the things that lead to global improvements. And that's why we see 25 to 45% reductions in depression and anxiety. Even though it's not a treatment, it's just, you know, once you start setting boundaries with people, you start advocating for yourself. You actually apply for that promotion. You ask your boss for a raise. You break up with someone that you should have broken up with a long time ago. Or what's more common nowadays is you don't go back. You learn how to resist going back to your ex. That's what I've seen more recently, personally. It turns out that it improves your life. And resisting your ex may lead to improvements in depression and anxiety. So if you all are interested in that, definitely check out our coaching program. So thank you all very much for coming today. Hopefully you all enjoyed the talk with Destiny. So for things that are a little bit more niche, like gifted kids or emotional regulation, for those topics, you all should definitely check out our resource packs. So what we did is we took some of these other topics that are not quite as comprehensive as like depression and anxiety and meditation, that we didn't want to build a good guide for, that we've actually done a lot of free content on. And those resource packs are available. So take care everybody, and have a good weekend.