 years ago and then I didn't really play seriously for like 10 years. Like whenever all the other WoW streamers got popular and whenever streaming became a thing, I had already quit WoW. I played League of Legends for a while then. But yeah, I was like a big Burning Crusade and Classic WoW. I quit in Wrath. Yeah, same. I mean, I was never that big into WoW, but I played a little bit of vanilla really got into it around Burning Crusade and then sort of bowed out with Wrath and Lich King. Yeah, just changed a whole bunch of stuff. So yeah. And what do you go by because Twitch chat wants me to call you AssFund? Nothing. Yeah, it's I just go by AssFund. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. As AssFund is like an old like not even old. This is like a few months ago. It's like, like, Jenny says my name like that sometimes. Whenever she was. Yeah. Who's Jenny? She's a she's a friend of mine. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. She's another streamer. Okay, cool. And so I'm I'm Olloc or Dr. K. Nice to meet you, AssFund. Yeah, nice to meet you officially. Yeah. Yeah. So tell me what are we talking about today? Um, well, I think whenever whenever I feel like I have like a lot of stuff. Cool. Kind of going on in in my head, like all the time. Cool. Well, it's like one of those things that's kind of like it's one of those things that's kind of added up over time. Okay. Like stuff like in in game, like communities stream, real life stuff. Okay. Is community and stream one thing or two things? Two things. Okay, so community stream game real life. Yeah, I meant like I meant like in game in game community, I guess. Or like or even like, like the wild community, right? There's some stuff there. But, but yeah, I'm trying to think of even where to start because I have a hard time. I guess I have a hard time kind of like pinpointing, like when there's something that's an issue, or like, like something's wrong, or I feel a certain way, I have a hard time kind of like, okay, let's trace back like, like, why do I feel this way? And I've been spending a lot of time like thinking about it, because I haven't streamed in almost two weeks now. Just kind of taking a break, because like, there's just been a lot of stuff like piling up. And I've had like, I've ADHD. Okay, yeah. So I've ADHD. And it's just kind of been like, I feel like it's getting worse. Like, I'm like super forgetful. I'll be doing something. I have like 100 things going on. I'm like in a constant state of sensory overload. And I just like, I just need to like, I need to not stream and just kind of get everything like reset. Okay. So we can talk about sensory overload and ADHD getting worse. Maybe a little bit towards the end, because I think that's an important thing to think about what makes ADHD better or worse. And how can we think about ADHD? So we can certainly talk about that. Yeah. So what I guess just in general, like, okay, let's talk about it like this. So I have, and this has kind of been something that's been adding up over the course of honestly, last year. Okay. Classic Wow came out like a year ago. I guess it makes sense if you know a little bit more about me and like my history. So so I was I started streaming on YouTube, like three years ago, a little over three years ago. And I was a vanilla while private server streamer, I ended up getting a DMCA because my stream grew to be like, I was the biggest private server streamer ended up getting banned, because I got a DMCA for three months on YouTube, whenever I got banned, I moved to Twitch. And Classic Wow got announced. And then whenever Classic Wow got announced, a bunch of the other wild streamers kind of were looking around, they knew who I was, I ended up making friends with like, as men soda, like a lot of these other guys, and they they like brought me into kind of like the Twitch community train, like all these guys. And then I kind of did a lot of variety streams and IRL and that kind of stuff, not playing wow that much leading up to classic because it was just like the wow classic waiting room. Like, that's like what we did. Yeah, so that was that was kind of like the whole thing. Like, like every every single title ever stream was like, oh, it's the it's the wow classic waiting room. That's what it is. Whenever it comes out, like, we'll have a game to play, it'll be great. And I had like, you know, realistically, like, I mean, I had like significant growth, I guess, for my stream in that time. And it was really fun, like we're doing all kinds of stuff. Miss Kiff started a little bit is missus chai streaming a few months after I did. But like, Miss and I were like together. And like, we were always like doing stuff together, we were doing IRL variety. Miss and I got banned for a week for something dumb. And after that, a week after we got banned, classic wow beta came out. And then I kind of went in this direction, this one that direction, which was kind of the same direction that we were going on, which is more like variety and IRL and that kind of stuff. So things were going great for everybody. It was awesome. But like, as the beta went on, and like once the game actually got here, like I felt like I had invested into a community of people that like hate me, like as far as everything, everything that that streamers do not not even just me personally, like it's literally everything that streamers do, there's people that were mad that streamers were in the beta. And they're like, why did the streamers get beta testing? And how come how come you know, I've been playing the game for 15 years. And it's like, okay, obviously, like, they're going to give out random random beta invites. Yes, then they're also going to give out beta invites to streamers to showcase their game. Like, this is like business. Like, how can anybody understand this? Right? Yeah. But let's say you have like a bunch of like, this is classic. Wow, you got a bunch of angry boomers who are mad. Them kids are taking my loot. Like, it's just it's super weird. But like, it is what it is. Right? These are people that are that are frustrated or angry that like, for whatever reason. Right. But these guys, they like it felt like it just got like progressively worse and worse, like over the course of last year, what it got a little bit better. It's gotten bad again, recently, like in the last few days, even. But it got a little bit better, like as the game kind of hit like a lull and like content, like a little bit of content around that we had, like, it's always like that, like, right before a new patch comes out, everything kind of dies down a little bit. And then people just like, kind of stop caring enough to make any drama about anything. But it's just constantly like, like, I what I did was I stopped streaming private servers. And I was like, I'm going to follow the rules. I'm going to do things right. Eventually, like, I got a chance to like, work with Blizzard on a lot of stuff and like have like direct feedback with them. I even stopped making videos about this stuff, because I'm like, why would I waste my time making a video just to form, like, likes on YouTube and views and all this kind of stuff and grow my channel whenever I could like, directly talk to somebody at Blizzard and like explain like why this is this is something that people like in Classic WoW. And this is why something should be done a certain way. Like to me, it was like, this is a waste of time to make a YouTube video other than just to like, form like a good favor with the community, right? Yeah, so it's just like a lot of stuff like that, right? When obviously, it's like better for me if like I'm working on my YouTube channel, but it just got turned into a thing where like literally any single thing that I do in Classic, it was just like people were hating on me, it got to the point where like there was people like harassing me making hate videos, things that I didn't even say like there was one video that like I said something. And then the guy literally like zoomed down on my face while I was saying it. And then wrote in text above my head what he said I was saying, which was not what I said what I was not what I actually said. And just to like make like a hate video about me, it was just like it was so weird, right? And like, I don't know, it was just something that like, it just constantly feels like people are hating on for whatever reason it is, right? Whether it's because I'm a streamer, because I don't play like the most optimal class in the game, it's just because I've always played this, like this is fun for me. Like, I know it's not the best thing. What class do you play? I play Retribution Paladin. Like I'm mostly a PvP guy. And like, I know it doesn't do as much like I don't want to I don't want to like have this turn to this whole like, wow, theory crafting session, but like it doesn't do as much PvE damage. But like these are the same people who say, like, oh, like, classic, wow, it's easy. And like this and that. And it's like, yeah, okay, yeah. But then like, why do you turn around and make a big deal about like, what class somebody plays? You know, because it was like, I'm still doing all the content. Right. I've done all the content. I've done everything in wow classic, except for like guild leading, raid leading everything like I've done everything except for I haven't raid led nax. And I haven't gotten Grand Marshal and I haven't gotten Scarab Lord. And there's like a few like little things, but like I've done everything else. Right. What is Scarab Lord? It's like the opening of the gates of aq. It's getting all the carapace fragments and basically like there's a big war effort that happens like right whenever on garage patch drops, which is where we're at right now. The the new raid patch drops, you have to do a big war effort, the Alliance and the Horde have to work together to get all the get all the the Alliance and the Horde have to work together in order to in order to basically open up the gates, you have to get a bunch of materials together. So it's like this whole thing where like at the beginning of classic, it's all like Alliance versus Horde. And then it gets to a point where it's like, okay, we actually have to work together to open up the gates to like fight the old god, right, which is C'Thun. So yeah, so it seems like you get a lot of hate. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's, that's, that's just like part of it, right? Like, I like, I don't want to, I almost don't want to focus on it too much, even though like it is something that really bothers me. And it adds up over time. What do you want to focus on? Well, I think more than anything, it's like, I think I I think for me, it turns into this thing where I have, I put a lot of responsibility on my plate. Okay. With like, I lead a big guild, and we have like a bunch of different rate teams, and I'm trying to work on my stream stuff. And like, there's so much like, like a parent, like, like, things are going, things are really going well, right? Like, as far as things I want to accomplish, like, I'm going to hit grand marshal, I've never hit grand marshal before, I'm going to hit grand marshal on Tuesday. Right? So that's that's something that I'm really happy about is hitting grand marshal. I'm going for scarab lord right now. So that's, again, that's something else that's, I'm excited about. Okay. And that's good. Like, these are things that like, I really, really want to accomplish in game, it's important to me. But at the same time, I'm going to hit grand marshal, I'm going to hit grand marshal I'm excited about this stuff. And I felt this over the last few weeks is like, I felt like I wasn't happy. And I was trying to figure out like, why am I not happy? And this is really what led to me taking a break from my stream is I feel like I like one I, I, part of me feels like I can't play wow, like I can't really play wow, like I can't really play wow. And I feel like I'm like, I'm feel like I like, one I, I, part of me feels like I can't play wow, like I can't really play wow on stream. I have to stream wow. And that's something that I that I kind of have to, I guess just come to terms with like streaming while I was different than just playing the game. And I felt like especially over the last few weeks, I was like, I was like grinding the game non stop because I had to for going for grand marshal, right. And I just I was like the end of the grind, like it's it's kind of the same thing. At this point, I'll take a break, I'll work on the beginning parts of scare of Lord. I mean, like, I mean, I'm here right now, right? Like, I'm killing bugs. So this is just like, if you guys can see it. But like, I spent like, I was up 21 hours slept three hours, two days in a row to hit like, like, a super high like, amount of honor so I could hit my bracket one cap so I can come out here and join my guild. And they worked on somebody else's mount before I got out here. And like my guild, my guilds ridiculous, like these guys are freaking like, as far as like anybody I've played with before, like they've, they've done it way faster than I've than anybody I've like personally played with and done this with. So yeah, like, so now it's like, am I just like addicted to this game? Probably. But it's like, these are things that like, I'm happy about accomplishing or like, I think I would be happy about accomplishing and I am right. I like I feel like really good about it. And especially over the course of the last few days, like, it's kind of like, it's kind of re invigorated me a little bit, like, just just not streaming and getting to play well and hang out with my guild and discord and like, just chatting, having a good time and like, there's still like a lot of stuff going on, like, I'm hopping around, like talking to different people and doing different things. But I guess going back to that point of, sorry, sorry, go ahead. Well, I'm going to just try to tie things together. That's okay. That's fine. So the first thing is that it sounds like you have a couple of boxes left to check when it comes to classic WoW. And you've been working very hard to check those boxes. In the process of checking those boxes, you can do one of two things. You can play WoW or you can stream WoW. And sometimes it sounds like playing WoW is more fun than streaming WoW. Right. As a streamer, it sounds like one of the things that gets in the way of you enjoying WoW is that there's a lot of anger, jealousy, toxicity from what I would guess to be a minority of your community, but a very vocal minority. And that sort of negatively impacts you. But what I'm really hearing you say is, why aren't you happy? That's the question that I'm hearing. And the weird thing is that you're saying that I don't want to focus on the negativity, which almost assumes that the happiness isn't necessarily. So one could assume that, okay, you have reasons to be happy and then you've got toxicity and that's why you're not happy. But what I'm hearing you actually say is subtly, and maybe you're not really saying this, but like if I read between the lines, it's sort of like, I don't want to focus on the toxicity and I want to maybe understand why despite my accomplishments, I don't feel happy. How is that for somebody? Yeah, I think so. And I mean, it's kind of weird. And maybe the reason I don't want to focus on toxicity is like, you kind of try and ignore it, but at a certain point, it does add up and affect you. Sure, right. So we're hearing that, right? So I'm hearing you say repeatedly that this has been piling up for a while and that even you took a break and you don't want to deal with it. Yeah. That's kind of it. I mean, even now, like last night, I was up until, last night was like, honestly, probably the longest amount of time I've slept in a long time because like, I had problems with like, I was sleeping like five hours a night and all this stuff and because like, I was trying to stream and play and this and that and get all my stuff done. That's why I actually have trouble sleeping. Like I hadn't but I think there were just so many things going through my head all the time. That would be hard for me to just like shut down. And what was going through your head? Just stuff with streams, stuff with guilds, stuff with, I mean, just trying to just trying to do like 100 things at a time, I guess. Okay. So when I even now like, yeah, go ahead. Well, I hear something. I'm sorry. Third time's the charm. You go for it. Okay. Okay. Frick, I forgot. Okay, that's, I'm sure it'll come back around. This is for those of you who are familiar in Ayurveda, this is what happens when two vatas talk. So, Esven, you know, what motivates you to play 21 hours or be awake for 21 hours and work on this stuff and sleep for three? I mean, that sounds quite drastic to me. So specifically what happened was I feel like I have this like personal like, I have like an obligation to my guild to be out there farming with them in Silithus or in the place where I have to kill these bugs to open the gates. But this is also my last week of getting that bracket one honor cap to where I can hit Grand Marshall on Tuesday. And we didn't know when this was coming out. We knew the new patch was coming out like three weeks ago. So it was hard to kind of like plan out or whatever. So it was just like, okay, well, I have to get out there and play with everybody else. Because if I don't get out there, I don't want people to feel bad or like, why is Esven not here or whatever. So I would be like in discord with them while I was going and pp with a pre-made group. And I stayed up and I played with like my American team. And then everybody went to bed and then I would go play with Chinese team. And then just to get as much honor as possible. Like we have like an add on that tracks everybody's like how much honor they have for the week. And it was like I was at like 550,000 points, which is a lot in two days. So I was like at 550, the next guy was at 500. And then the next guy was at 460. And then the next guy was at 420. Like it was just like it was that big of a difference between like where I was at and where everybody else was at. And we have a whole week to get it. But like, I felt like I had to push so heavily up front so that I can go out and I can play with everybody else because I don't want to have like any sort of like disgruntlement or any sort of any sort of like resentment or anything towards oh, why is this been not here or whatever. And then I mean, there's people like my guild doesn't even care. There's people in other guilds who are like trash talking my guild. Oh, your guild leader is not even here and you guys are out here forming for me and stuff. And it's funny we laugh about it. But like I know, like I said before, like I know that over time, those kinds of things add up. Why are you so hard on yourself? I don't know. I mean, just like, I don't know. I mean, I guess. Like, I just don't I don't want anybody to feel like I'm like, not doing something like, I'm not doing right by them. You know what I mean? Yeah, but it sounds like that's not actually a concern of theirs. Right. Not now, or maybe not that I know. But my I guess my worry is that they will feel that way, eventually. And that's why I want to make sure that I'm doing the things that I need to do. Okay. That's not. Yeah. So what is the right way to deal with a worry? I don't know. Right. So let's say that. Okay. I think for a second. I think for a second. Sounds like you try really hard not to let them down. Yeah. They sound very important to you. Yeah. I feel like. Good. Nope. You go. I was gonna say I feel like if people are going to trust me and believe in what I'm doing, and what I what I want to accomplish as a guild or any sort of organization, like I played like, you know, I played football growing up, I played football in college, I worked in I worked at SMU for two years before I started streaming. I was on the recruiting staff and video staffs and doing all that kind of stuff. Damn. Yeah, well, I like I was like, totally out of wow for a long time. And then that's a whole nother thing. I mean, we can talk about that later, I guess. But I feel like if people are going to invest in what I'm about, I need to turn around and invest back in them. Yeah, so we hear that theme, right? So you kind of talk, you talked earlier about you invested in a community that now you feel like you have to live up to. They kind of hung out in the wow classic waiting room. And so you owe them something in return, because they were there with you before wow classic even came out. And there's a trust there. There's an expectation, there's a reciprocation. Yeah. And really, like, I'm sorry, go ahead. I was just gonna say and really like, being realistic, like these are not all people that like watch my stream or anything like that, too. It's just like a community of people that like, I feel like I was like, like pushing for some like pushing towards something, right? I was like, you know, we want classic Wow, like we want it done the right way and all this stuff. And then it hasn't turned out perfect. It's it's it's in a pretty good state right now. But there's still like a list of problems that the game has that like, I would hope they would fix. But that's I mean, still, like it's it's not like it's it's not really even all the people that are like a part of like my stream community. Are you good enough? I think so. So this was a little bit unusual, because you've been talking a lot. I think this is the first time that you really stopped and you thought you share with us what you were thinking. I feel like and this is something I talked to. There's something that actually, this is something that Soda told me, like three years ago. He said that whenever I was on private servers, and whenever I was, you know, kind of just starting out and I in the grand scheme of things, like I was like a small streamer, right. And it was like, oh, like s fans, you know, he's our guy. And you know, he's, you know, classic, wow, is coming out and people are super excited for me is like, oh, his streams gonna grow and all this stuff. And it's great, right. And for me, like, I wasn't even like ever planning on being a full time streamer. When I started streaming, it was, I was just making videos looking for another job in college football, because I was just like trying to like stay on top of my video editing. And the only reason I started streaming was because my computer didn't have any hard drive space. And I wanted to upload my raids to YouTube. So I stream on YouTube because it didn't save any, it didn't use any hard drive. I wasn't ever playing on becoming a streamer. And then everything just kind of like, everything snowballed and got really good. But there's something that chance told me and he's like, because this is something that he went through too. He said, basically, like whenever you're starting out and like, people start watching your channel and stuff for a reason. And you know, it's there's some initial interest there, right. And it's usually in wow, it's because you're a good player. Like I was like playing a rep palette, which is considered not a very good class, but I was doing like really good things, the rep palette. And then what happens is like, as your stream grows, just naturally, like, people are just going to just start like saying you're bad or like, just things that aren't even true are going to happen. Or like people are gonna, you're streaming it. So they take something out of context, they clip something out of context, and they turn it into something else. And they're just gonna like start dumping on you all the time, because they're jealous or whatever. And this is the guy who like, he said the same thing happened to him. And he's like multi rank one gladiator, like he's like, he has a bunch of skins on the wall, too, right? For like things that that he's done that are like really good accomplishments in wow. And what does he tell you? Well, he just said like, it's gonna happen. So yeah, so. So yeah, that's so, so that's something that I'm seeing happen now, like three years later, like I'm like, I've been like experiencing over the last year. As vendor, you're happy. I'm I'm at this weird, I think I'm in this weird place where I'm I'm happy about the things we're doing in wow, like, the sounds like it. You sound like you feel proud of your accomplishments and the direction that you're moving. Yeah. And I'm proud of my guilt. Like my my guilt has done a great job, right? Okay. They like they like, it's so good, because all these guys talk trash about crusade. And then like, we're like shutting people down, like, like, we're doing the war effort. And like, we're just like, it's good, like, because like, and people are mad at us. And like, like, they're just like talking trash to us, because they're like, they're mad. They can't anyway. So what's, what's, what's getting in the way of you basking in the positivity from your guild and your efforts and your accomplishments? I think I think there's there's this is kind of what I think this is something that I want to circle around to more. And as I've been thinking over the course of the last few days, I think where the unhappiness comes from, is I spent two years before classic came out, not playing classic. Wow, I was doing IRL content, I was doing variety streams, I was doing some of my friends, like me, Asman and train would do cooking streams together. Me, you Robin, Miz would do IRL. Like it was it was, we were doing all kinds of different stuff, right. And one of our classic wild came out, I kind of got stuck on this path of like, I really want to play this game. And there's there's things that I want to accomplish in this game. And I'm planning on playing Burning Crusade and Burning Crusade comes out, all this stuff, right. But I think the the feeling of like, like, I guess, I'm not like creatively fulfilled. Because as much as I'm enjoying streaming battlegrounds, I are playing battlegrounds and getting my rank 14 grind and hitting grand marshal. Like whenever I sit there and I stream it, like, I feel like I'm I'm not being I don't feel like I'm being myself. Like, it's weird. Like, I don't like being myself is being goofy being entertaining. And to some degree, like I still am right. But like, I just don't feel like I'm I don't feel like I'm streaming the type of stuff I want to stream, even though I'm playing the type of thing that I want to play. And it doesn't feel good when I'm doing this. I want to play the game. And I really want to accomplish this goal. And then there's people that come to chat, and they're mad. And it's just like, just just being like, weird, like, I don't know. Are you living the kind of life that you want to live? Hmm. Super question. I think so. Maybe something some things I want different, right? Like, I wish I wasn't so forgetful. And my frickin brain wasn't all over the place all the time. Like, I said, I have ADHD. And I've been prescribed with medication for but my men feel like you have to play Wow. Yes. Do you want to play Wow? Yes. Is there a part of you that doesn't want to play Wow? I think there's a part of me that doesn't want to stream Wow, sometimes. Like, but there's like, I want to play it, but I don't want to stream it all the time. Because I think part of the thing with classic two is if I if I'm streaming Wow, I want it to be this thing of, and I felt this over the course last few weeks, I would go and I would stream something else. And oh, like, pod, like s fans playing GTA s fans, you know, playing this, you're doing that. Cool, right. But I get this feeling of when I'm streaming Wow, oh, great, s fans playing Wow again. And I don't like that. I don't ever I don't want that in anything. I want it to be a situation where if I'm streaming something, then I want people to be excited about it. But like, I have to do something to like, showcase what I want to showcase the right way. And that's where I think the creative fulfillment comes in, where I feel like I'm not doing that. And then it makes me feel bad about it. Despite the fact that like, there's, you know, like, regardless of like, viewership or any sort of like, metric, I ask you to just stop talking for just a second. Because you just said a lot of really important stuff. And I, I don't want to lose sight of it. Can I just have a second, please? When I talk to you, what I feel like is like I'm talking to a guy who's taken out a loan and has to pay it back. Does that resonate with you at all? Reminds me of SMU a little bit. Right. So I'm going to just start talking. Okay. Okay. And you let me know, feel free to interrupt you because I've been interrupting you a fair amount. And so here's, so I get a sense of like, just debt from you in owing and doing things that you have to do, instead of things that you want to do. I feel a sense of obligation more than anything else. You know, there's so much obligation throughout everything that you're saying, you're, and it's not like necessarily a bad thing. Like, it's not like just a burden, because some of it I think you think is fair. And some of it I think you think is like what you signed up for, and also like something that you enjoy. But like, it's hard to describe. So the last thing that I want to say is that I'm what I'm getting from you, at the end of the day is a lot of conflict. It's not that you're one way or the other way. It's that like you're both ways at the same time. So let me just give you an example. So it sounds like you enjoy playing WoW. It sounds like you really want to be grand marshal and you want to grind. And also that you like, you've sacrificed some of the IRL and creative stuff in order to accomplish that goal that you've set for yourself. Those are the two things that you haven't done yet. So you're like, I'm fucking S-Fan and I got to do those things. And as you're doing them, you recognize that there's some enjoyment here and that there is a sense of accomplishment, but you're leaving something behind. And now we get to, I'm going to just keep on going. So like I kind of envisioning like S-Fan in the WoW waiting room. And then like people show up for one thing, which is WoW Classic. And what they get is something else and something that you find like fulfilling and fun and engaging and creative and not a grind, right? It's like cooking streams and stuff like that. You actually really enjoy that. It seems like the community really built up around that. But there was this promise that was hanging in the air, which is that when WoW comes out, the waiting room is over. It's time to board the plane. And once we board the plane and it takes off, we're on that fucking flight. You don't go back to the terminal and clown around. And what I'm sensing from you is a sense of, okay, I wanted to get on this plane. I boarded this plane. There are parts of it that are good, but I kind of miss the waiting room. Right. And that's, I said this the other day. I was like, I spent the whole time like, you know, we want Classic WoW, we want Classic WoW, we want Classic WoW. And then what I've kind of realized more recently is it's not Classic WoW that I wanted. It's really it's Classic S-Fan, right? And some of that is, some of that does include WoW, but it's more like how I used to stream WoW on YouTube. Like whenever I streamed WoW on YouTube, I streamed WoW like two or three days a week. So, so S-Fan, now we get back to obligation. You want Classic S-Fan, but you owe the people something else. You owe yourself something else. And as long as you have that debt hanging over you, you're never going to be happy. Right. Right. That's kind of like, I'm hitting a point now where I like the Grand Marshall grind is, is it's essentially over. I mean, like I hit my honor for the week already. So I'm just kind of waiting until Tuesday and then I'll hit Grand Marshall. And then we're working on Scarab Lord now, but I think streaming the Scarab Lord stuff, would be really cool if I decided I want to stream it. Not right now with like the bug grind, but after the bug grind is over, like it's a kill like 42,000 bugs. But after that, like it's like a really cool like stream, like, like it's a cool question that almost nobody in WoW has seen. Like there's like probably less than 100 people that have done this question, at least in retail, but I don't remember the exact number, but that would be something that would be crazy cool to stream and it would be fun. And I think a lot of people would enjoy that. But I don't know. I don't know if I want to, I haven't decided if I want to stream it or not. Because it's also that people can harass me while I'm doing it too. That's just like a whole thing. But yeah, so yeah, no, I think I think you're right. Like, it's almost like I kind of just want to get these two things done, and then move on to a schedule where I can like not think about it. And I can I can kind of have like a consistency of, okay, I'm doing wow, I'm streaming while two or three days a week, kind of like I did on private servers, except now that I stream full time, instead of stream some days and then work on videos and try and find a job on the other. Like if I if I were to do that, and then I can I do my raids, I do this, I do some pvp on stream, and it's fun, like whenever whenever I'm streaming, wow, it's fun and engaging for people. And then whenever I'm streaming variety and IRL and whatever whatever else I want to do, because I've gotten to the point now where like, I don't even start my stream in while I start my stream and I and I start with just chatting recap, I talk about whatever's going on. And that to me, like that kind of brings everyone in, in all different parts of the community, because there's a ton of people watching my stream who don't even play wow, at this point, and I do that to kind of like, okay, this is this is something that's like the guild meeting, right? It's like it's like a daily guild meeting, we do recap, we do all that stuff. And then I move on to whatever game that I play. And some days, I like that. And in some ways, it feels good, right? I think a lot of streamers have the problem of like, if if they grow in a section, they have trouble moving to another section, I kind of have this like the opposite deal where it's like if it's it's feels like the game that I grew in is is like, oh, great, he's playing wow, whenever they want me to go do something else, you know, which is weird, like it's it's it's I guess really, it's a good problem to have. It's just like a, I just don't I don't want to Yeah, so I'm confused because at the beginning of that, you said you're right. But I don't think I ever said any of that what you what just came out of your mouth? Do you think that I'm telling you to do that? Well, I think you were right in terms of I think I think you were right in terms of well, maybe I misunderstood what you were saying. So what were you trying to do? I think the only thing that's going on here is you're confusing me telling you with something that you yourself discovered. That's really the only thing I'm confused. Okay, so I just it seems to me like you just figured something out. Okay, but maybe you knew this all along. It's hard for me to tell. But but what I'm hearing, sorry, what I'm hearing from you is a sort of a clarity of a plan, which is that you're going to finish Grand Marshall, you're going to finish the Scarab grind, you're going to try to stream some of the the AQ questline or something that very few people have seen, and that you're going to find a balance between fulfilling your creative pursuits a couple days a week through IRL and just chatting or maybe even on a given day, along with streaming wow, two to three days a week, because more than that feels burdensome, or like you're paying back a debt or doing something that you've been shackled to. And doing it a couple of days a week feels fun to me and feels fulfilling. Doing it every day or playing wow for 21 hours at a stretch and sleeping for three feels like you sacrifice the creative part of yourself. And what I'm hearing from you is sure there's like a backdrop of toxicity, which has its own kind of impact on your mind, but that ultimately like, like, it's, it's interesting, because you're choosing not to focus on that, which I think leads us to think that you're just unfulfilled. And what I'm hearing you, you just say is like, this is maybe the road to feeling fulfilled. What do you think? Is that a good recap? Yeah, I think so. Like that, like, like, like you said earlier, like, I'm trying to check the boxes off, like, there's like not a whole lot that I haven't done. And it's like, I feel like this is my last time to do it. So I want to I want to do it, right? I want to Okay, Graham Marshall, boom, I did it. Scarab Lord, boom, I did it. Okay, so now as Fandai have three directions, I mean, do you have if you have questions for me, feel free to jump in. Or if you want to talk about something else, there are three paths that I think we have left to go. One is, you know, 21 hours of a grind feels very excessive to me. I recognize that some people play wow, and other video games, to the point of accomplishing these very difficult things. And I'm curious about, you know, your motivations and drivers to do that sort of stuff and what it means to you. That's one. Second thing is, I think that I'm detecting within you a part of almost at this point, your personality, or some scar around like, feeling like you owe people, and you don't want to let them down. Because we see that story, we see that thread in a lot of what you say, in terms of, okay, these people showed up. And now I have to stream Wow, because they were in the wow waiting room for so long. In terms of your guild members who, when your guild leader gets criticized by other people for not showing up, you tell me that your guild is actually very supportive and doesn't mind that he or she doesn't show up. And yet you are afraid of not carrying your own weight, and you don't want to let them down. So you don't want to let people down. And so my sense is that that actually comes from before all of this stuff. That somewhere, probably early on, you either were let down by someone, and this is like sort of true of everyone, so you either were let down by someone, or you let someone else down, and it really affected you in some part deep within you said, I'm never going to be this person. And it could be like someone in your family who let you down, or it could be like you did something and you're like, that's never going to happen again. And if you ever want to be free, because this kind of goes back to the question that I asked you, what do you do with that worry? I don't think you're handling it healthily. So if I'm worried that my colleagues are going to think less of me, the solution to that is not to stay up 21 hours to protect myself from that worry. That's not a healthy way. That's actually giving into the worry. Sort of like, I'm worried that when I drive my car, I'm going to run out of gas. Therefore, I'm going to fill my trunk with gasoline just in case. And when I fill my trunk with gasoline, it's sort of like, oh, now I don't have to worry anymore because my trunk is full of gasoline. But that's not the healthiest way to deal with worry because you're not actually dealing with the worry, you're satisfying it. You're not letting go of it. You're not learning how to tolerate it because it does sound unreasonable. It sounds like you're well respected in the guild. And so the other direction we can go is to try to get underneath, like, why do you feel like you can't let other people down? And why do you put yourself through so much to prevent the possibility of letting someone down? Yeah. Because that sounds bluntly unhealthy to me. Yeah. That's kind of what's going on. Yeah. So, and then the third thing we can think about is ADHD and VATA and how I think you will excel. So the people who are ADHD, I can do this quickly and we can talk more about it if you want. People who are ADHD need to do multiple things to give their best to be the most productive. We have this assumption that the way to be most productive is to do one thing. Right? We think about like people who pound out 80 hours on one thing and that's the road to success. People who are VATA and VATA is like a sort of personality diagnosis from traditional Indian medicine. Like you and myself actually excel with variety. So I'm a clinician. I see patients. I do psychiatry. I stream for some hours a week. I teach for some hours a week. I do consulting for some hours a week. I parent for some hours per week. And I find that if I do research, and I find that if I was doing any one of those, I have some colleagues who are brilliant researchers who spend 70 hours a week doing research and they accomplish a lot. I do not accomplish anything near what they accomplish in research. So I'm outclassed by streamers who stream full-time. I'm outclassed by researchers who research full-time. I'm outclassed by clinicians, although that one's arguable, who practice medicine full-time. But I do more research than streamers and I stream more than researchers. And ultimately my road to success has not been really, really good at one thing. It's about being a competent person who understands the mind on Twitch. You'll find yogis who understand more meditation than I do, and you'll find psychiatrists who are better psychiatrists than I am. But in the middle of all of those things is where I excel. And what I'm hearing from you is that you're the same way, which fits with ADHD, because people like us also get diagnosed with ADHD. You know, it's interesting that you say that. I remember whenever, because there was a period about, this was probably about four or five months ago, before I did the grand marshal grind, and before, I mean, literally this patch dropped like three days ago. The, where I started streaming variety again, after Classic came out, just because we were kind of in a content drought. And I remember everybody saying like me streaming variety had made my wild streams better. And I felt that way too. Yep. Right. So you got to understand, Esfand, who you are, which is not the guy who, so I mean, I don't know too much about streaming, actually. But my understanding is that Asmongold streams a fair amount of wow, and not a whole lot of other stuff. Is that fair to say? Yeah. And actually, I don't know if that's a good comparison. But you know, I think there are some streamers who stream one thing all day, every day, and that's what people come to them for. I think what people come to you for is a certain amount of variety. And I think you put forth your best foot when you're not worn down by doing the same thing over and over and over again. Yeah. That there is light or Tejas, radiance in your face, when you toss in a little bit of variety with a little bit of wow. And that you're like zombified when you're strictly doing your sixth straight day of eight hour wild streaming. And that's not what they come to you for. The problem is that you feel like you owe them wow. And so you give something that is not even the best of what you have to give because of your perception that you owe it to them and you're afraid of disappointing them, just like your guildmates. Yeah. Even though just like your guildmates, you have evidence to the contrary. So then we get to like, where did you get the idea that you can't let people down? Have you let someone down before? Is someone like really, really let you down? Like, and you're like, fuck that. I'm never going to be like that. I don't know, actually. I'm trying to think now where Did that Did that I don't know where that comes from. Okay. So we have to be a little bit careful here because that's true of everyone, right? So it's like, it's like almost like an astro like, like I'm an astrologer and I say, has there been a period of your life where you're disappointed by someone? It's like, duh, obviously. Yeah. What I what, you know, like, generally speaking, the kind of things that we're looking for, like, you know, absent dads is like a pretty common one. You know, so like, I'd say like, what was your upbringing like? And if you feel like talking about that, we can talk about that. Oh, well, I feel like I feel like my parents are great. Like, I like I was very, I feel like from that respect, like, I was very fortunate, like, my, my dad, so my dad, I think this is where I get my, like, I'm a grinder, like, that's like what I would literally beat my head against the wall for like 21 hours and just do the same thing over and over and over again, to get something done if I feel like I have to do that. It's because like, my dad, my dad works at a gas station. And he's worked at a gas station his whole life. He was an engineer, he came to America, like, my thing with my parents is my parents came here, you know, 30 some odd years ago, too, so that the future generations could have a better life than what they had. My parents are from Iran, right. So I was but I was born in Texas and Dallas. So they came here for us to have a better life. Like for me and my my future kids and all that stuff, right. And my dad, even though he was an engineer, he got laid off a few times, he was like, hey, I'm gonna have an opportunity to go, you know, work at a gas station, whatever. And that's what he did for like, almost like 30 years. Now, my dad is my dad has been working at gas station with an engineering degree. Because he's like, Yeah, that's what we have to do, right. He ends up getting the store and he he he co owns us and he's part owner of the store. But that's just that's just what they do. Like, it's just my dad grinds, right, because he has to and he doesn't really have a whole lot of help. He's like 60. And he like on and off shifts, like, he works at least like eight hours a day every single day, like for my whole life. I used to go to the store and I would help my dad out and like all kinds of stuff. So yeah, as far as that goes, like my parents, I feel like my parents have, like, I guess sacrifices because they would be just fine living in Iran, like, you know, good family, all that stuff, like, like my uncles and stuff, they're like, they're fine. They're doing great, right. But as far as like, they take the hit. And they say, we're gonna we're gonna put a harder life on us to pick up and move and go to another country. And so that our son and you know, his family in the future, all that stuff can have a better life. So for me, I do feel like I feel like I have to do a good job for my parents in a lot of ways. And I have to give back to them. Like, my my goal, like one of my life goals is, I, if I could ever be in a situation where I'm successful enough to be able to just like, hey, mom, dad, here you go. Here's a here's a here's a credit card. Here's a debit card, buy whatever you need ever. And and I could do that for them. Like, no question, like period point blank, and a discussion, I would 1000% do anything for my parents. If I if I was ever in a situation in life where I could do that. Because I feel like they they gave up a lot for me. And because of that, I if I could do anything for them, like anything, I would do that. Yeah, so I don't know if it was as clear to the people watching as it is to me, but there it is. Right. So in your case, so this is kind of interesting. So this happens to so in your case, I mean, because what I mean, what I talked about, like earlier, as I said, there's a sense of owed and not letting people down and obligation. Now, sometimes that comes from someone letting you down. In your case, it comes from something really positive, but the feeling is still the same. You are not going to be the kind of person who lets people down. You are not going to be the kind of person who will let your dad with an engineering degree do the humiliating work of working in a gas station for 30 years of your life, and not hold up your end of the bargain. You will be damned before that ever happens. You will be damned before your teammates say that like, as fan does not holding up his end of the bargain. Because we're out all out here grinding and you will be damned before you don't do your fair share. It's the sense of obligation, you will be damned if the people that showed up and waited for you to wear to stream wow. When wow comes out, you're going to fucking stream wow, even if you don't want to, because that's what you do when someone makes a sacrifice and invests in you. Is that how it feels? Yeah, in a lot of ways. Yeah. So now we get to a tricky thing. So just as an aside, I mean, some of these terms may not make a whole lot of sense to you. I'm happy to explain them in more detail, but for those of you who are wondering, so sometimes we get a question. So there's a thing called a samskar, which is sort of like a personality trait or a ball of undigested emotion. And in your sense, in your mind, you have this powerful thing. It's like a character trait that you're not going to let people down. And part of that, I think, is the reason that you've sacrificed your creative endeavors. Because in order to do that, that's for you and you're breaking the unspoken promise of what you owe to other people. Does that make sense? So some scars can come from good places too. And this thing, I think what's happened is like deep down, like, you know, your parents have given a lot and you're not going to be the guy who lets other people give without giving. Every time your guild is out grinding scarabs, every time you go out and you kill a scarab, some part of you feels like you're giving a credit card. Now this is a stretch. Okay. This is like a real stretch, but some part of you, I imagine, feels the satisfaction that you feel when one day you give your parents that credit card or that debit card. It's telling them, Hey, you guys don't need to grind anymore because I've done it for 21 hours. Why do you spend 21 hours staying up so that you can do your PVP thing so that you can do your part for everyone else? And you can tell them y'all don't need to worry about it anymore. I got this. Does that make sense? Is that right? It actually is a better way to put it like, cause I don't know, like that's even a stretch based on what I'm putting together. But I'm curious. Like I see it, but I see what you're saying is I see, I see what your point is. Like, cause I feel like everybody has to work on this because it's not a, like it is very much a guild effort. Like it's impossible for any one person to do it alone or anything like that. It's very much a guild effort. And I think just like, not like it's, it's like, if I'm not there with them, then I just think it's not, even then I don't like, I don't know. I just don't want, yeah. I think, I think you're right. I think you're right. Like it's like, like it's like it's semantics, but yeah, like you're right. So even if it's semantics, then, then tell us what is it? What are your words? Give us your words. What is it? Oh, I guess it's more so about like, instead of, instead of an, I got this, it's, it's more of like a, we got this together. Cause I know like realistically, like I know that like, like I, like I, for scare board, for example, I know that I can't, I know that I can't do without the guild. Like I, like I think I'd be, I'd be a fool to think that I could do it without them. Right. So it's more like I'm here alongside you guys and we're doing it together. Cause it's very much, even though one person has them out, like usually it's a guild leader or something like that. Even though one person has them out, it's very much a guild accomplishment that, that I think everybody, like if you're part of a guild that gets one, like you should be very proud of that. So let me ask you something. Yes, man. Is the pride that you feel from that the same color, flavor and texture, although maybe less so of the pride you'll feel when you give your parents a credit card? Cause y'all are a family. Mm hmm. Um, is that a similar feeling? To some degree. Yeah. And I see why you say that. So it's not even though it's not exactly the same. It's kind of like, it's in the same, like, I guess, like, like, uh, wavelength. Yeah. Yeah. So what feels similar about that and what feels different? Like your family's your family, right? But, but in terms of like the, like to, I guess like categorize the different parts of it, it's like, you feel like other people are there, you know, they're, they're like sacrificing for you that you want to sacrifice for them. And that's, that's where it's the same. Yeah. And so as fan, I, you know, you're welcome to ask questions, but now I sort of, I want to offer maybe two things that maybe have something to do with you and maybe have something to do with our community. These are not conclusions. They're hypotheses for you to explore. So I think, you know, when I, when I, throughout this entire conversation, there's been a part of me that's like, in the back of my mind, I've been like, holy shit, that's kind of fucked up. And what I'm talking about is playing for two days for 21 hours straight, followed by three hours, I mean, so 21 hours of sleep, followed by three, I mean, so 21 hours of playing, followed by three hours of sleep. There's something about that that feels unhealthy to me. Now, you know, I think we were thinking about, okay, why do you do that? And I think this is really important to consider. I think sometimes video games give us a chance to be the people that we want to be in real life. Because this is a place where there are people who are sacrificing and you're sacrificing, and that's who you fucking are. That's who your parents taught you to be. And that's the kind of person you are. And you can be proud of that. And this is the problem with the perception of addiction. So someone, if I sit you in front of a psychiatrist, and you tell them that they're going to diagnose you with a fucking video game addiction. Right, right. And they're not going to be wrong in a sense, because you spent, you know, out of a 48 hour period, it sounds like you played video games for 42 of them. 42 hours of work in a 48 hour period is insane. You see that in things like medicine, and sometimes banking and stuff like that. And yet I think that that's like, it's a little bit unfair to just call you an addict, because I think you're getting something really, really important out there. That's why you do it, right? You put yourself through hell because of this. And from the outside, someone is going to look at you and say, like, this guy's fucking addicted. And then you could that gets complicated, because you're a streamer, and you're making money. So how different is it from investment banking after all? Fine. But at the end of the day, what I want you to recognize as fan is that I think that for you, and maybe for some other people at home, some of what you do in the game is to scratch the itch that you haven't been able to scratch in real life. And it's not entirely the same. And there's a part of me that says that if you really want to be happy, and you really want to be satisfied in that way, playing 42 hours of wow, I don't know how much closer that moves you to giving that credit card to your parents. Genuinely saying I don't know, but I think it's something you should think long and hard about. Right. You know, it's fine to have. Yeah. Well, I was just gonna say, like, and I think like, and this is really something that I'm kind of coming to, like, I think it comes back to like having having those like check boxes, right, like things that I just want to like, I did it, right, I got I got grand Marshall, I got scared of Lord, and then it just focused on my stream, because like, and like streaming while not just playing while it's streaming it properly, and like making sure it's a fun entertaining stream and instead of grinding beetles, instead of grinding beetles for for Yeah, that sounds like a bad stream. Yeah, exactly. And yeah, so that's that's basically where I'm at right now, from from that respect. Like, there's still little things that like get to me and like set me off, though, like, what do you mean? Like, as far as I think I like, I'm understanding that part that we just talked about, and like, and things are kind of becoming a little more clear to me. But I've had this like growing over the last year, sense of like, somebody messages me something like, really, really stupid. Or it says something to me, just like, I don't know, like, I don't know what they think is gonna happen. Right. And I feel like I can't say anything back to them, or like, I can't defend myself. And then like, sometimes, like, if I do, because it turns into this thing of like, I mean, 10 years ago, we said all kinds of things in online games, right? You can't say good old days. Yeah. And like, I'm not like, if you especially if you're a streamer, like, I feel like if I say anything, it gets taken out of context or whatever. And like, I can't like, I mean, I would mean crap, like, like, somebody can say whatever they want to me. And if I turn around and say it back to them, or like, defend myself or whatever, like, like, I play a retribution Paladin, right? Like, I'm a retribution Paladin in real life. Like, I feel like if somebody does something to me, like, I have to give it back to them. Right. And like, I that's probably not 100% good way of looking at things. But like, these guys are like, guys, just joking. I think it's fucking hilarious that we're talking about his obligation debt owed and giving back to them what they want. You play a fucking retribution Paladin. That's like the very essence. It's like, what better correlation do you need between core personality and like, paying like the only class in the game is about giving people what they fucking deserve. Which in terms of these noobs on the internet is is hell and toxicity. And in terms of your parents is a credit card. In terms of your guild leaders, it's your guild, it's like grinding like, how much better can we tie this up? Like, what would we do if you played a, I don't know, like a healing druid or something like a moonkin? Like, how does moonkin get it? Like, that doesn't work at all. But Well, I'd probably show up at conventions in a fur outfit. So if I played a moonkin, so Well, in your case, just with your shirt off. Yeah, pretty much. But yeah, I mean, like, I even like make the joke all the time. I make the joke of like, are they like ret ballad in game, ret ballad in real life? So yeah, you're like, you know, I mean, you're right. Like, that's how that's how I treat people. Like, I feel like I treat people how like they deserve to be treated. It's an obligation. What you reap is what you fucking sell. Yeah, so like, but but I feel like I have to internalize, like, if I want to say something to somebody, like, when it's kind of bad, too, because somebody's like, like, it's like, I don't sometimes I don't just want to, like, if somebody like slaps you, like, it's like, okay, like, just in comparison of like damage, right? It's like somebody slaps you. And I'm like, okay, well, like, I'll break this guy's arm, right? It's like, it's like 10 times more. Like, like, I want to give it back 10 times more, for some reason. Like, that's just like how I feel. So maybe maybe that's why I feel that way. For being nice to people. That you want to give it 10 times more? What do you mean by that? I suspect you're right, even though I understand don't understand what you mean. Maybe okay. I saw a light bulb just go off. Tell us that. So I have this feeling of when I have this feeling of like, if somebody says something to me, and it sets me off, I'm like, dude, I'm gonna frickin I'm pulling up this guy's logs in frickin every channel I'm modded in, I'm gonna frickin find out, I'm gonna get a credit report on this guy, like all kinds of stuff, right? Like, there's like, that's how I feel, right? Whenever somebody does something like, bad to me, if somebody does does me wrong, like, it's like, I'm like, 1000% like I'm getting this guy back. But then if somebody is helping me out, or doing something good to me, I maybe that's part of the reason why I feel so like obligated to like, go all in on them too. Yep. So that's kind of what I'm getting. Yep. I think it's the same thing. Agreed. You just started to yeah. Yeah. Positivity or negativity. Yeah. Right. So whatever you get, get as fan. He multiplies it by 10 and gives it back. Yeah. Now here's the question. It's a good realization. I agree with it. What do we do with that? I don't know. So I have a suggestion for you. Okay. So I want you to remember that. That's fine. They're owed that right? If someone loans you a dollar, you're going to give them 10. And that's what we talk about with your parents. I mean, they made big sacrifices and you want to give them 10 times as much back. Yeah. Right. You want to give them a credit card one day and say, don't worry about anything. You never have to go work at that gas station again. And I'm behind you. I think it's a noble goal. And that's what retribution it's not. It's not. It's a retribution palette, right? Because at the end of the day, you're still a paladin. Yeah. You're not like, you're not like a death knight. Yeah. There's a big difference between a death knight who heals and a paladin who's a retribution palette. Because at the end of the day, it's about justice. If you're like at your core, it's good. So here's where I think so as an this may be a little bit, we can talk more about this. This is probably worth an entire conversation, but I'll give you just a step to think about. So what I want you to remember is that sure, you want to give them 10 times what they're owed, but if you give them 10 times what they do to you, you still lose 10 times as much energy. Whether you're casting heal spells or you're casting damaging spells, you're still depleting your mana bar to do that thing. And that's why I feel burned out. Absolutely. It's because I'm out of mana. Yep. Because you give 10 times back. It's why you feel tired because you 10 times back for your guild is doing 42 hours of grinding in two days. And you're and what I really want you to think about, I don't think you're gonna, I think the thing, Espen, you're not gonna, if you die tomorrow, you're gonna be unhappy. And your work on this earth is not gonna be finished. Your work on this earth is finished when you give your parents that credit card. And the way that you give them your credit card is you stream the way it sounds like you got to stream. Right. And you stream and you create the best content that you can. You do think about focusing on growing your stream and growing your YouTube. Not like being a slave to it, but pay attention to what feels creatively good for you. And also don't lose sight of like, don't be like, like, you know, pay attention because this is money and it sounds like you owe your parents and you want to support them, which I think is a noble goal for you to have. And so then the last thing that I'll leave to you is whenever you feel like unleashing the wrath of God upon the noobs on the internet, ask yourself how much closer to giving a credit card to my parents does this bring me? And let that be your guiding principle. And sometimes it could make for very good content. Yeah. Yeah. I see what you're saying. So, so what this is, is this is a broader principle of something called virage or detachment, which is to step away from your emotions and to like kind of act. But the question is like, everyone asks, how do you step away? And the way that you step away is by like noticing within yourself. Okay. This guy, just this fucking level eight rogue and it was some book, some somehow wandered into Stranglethorn Vale, just attacked my level 40 hunter and now is running away. And instead of finishing my beautiful quest chain, which is like a loop through Stranglethorn Vale of grinding dinosaurs or whatnot, I'm going to chase him halfway across Stranglethorn Vale just to teach him a fucking lesson. Right. And is it worth your time? Sure, it feels good. And sometimes it is worth your time. Right. And then you're like that fucker, he responded like, I forget whatever the Silverthorn or something. Where's that undead starting zone? Yeah. So the silver pine forest. Yeah. So that area. And then you're like, okay, not only did I knock him out of Stranglethorn Vale, but his, his, he's in silver pine or whatever. Now I'm going to go camp his ass and I'm going to camp his ass for a week and teach him a fucking lesson. Teach him don't, don't aggro me ever again. Yeah. Otherwise S fan is going to teach you who, you know, you know, you know, you know, what's funny is I told, so this is how it works, right? Like right now is we have a, uh, and I think some of the people in my guild feel this way too, where it's like, we're, we're the big guild and people are always like, trying to like, oh, like crusade this crusade that right. But when it comes to like, we have like a big sheet for, um, we have a big sheet for like the war effort contribution. Um, for like prior to this patch coming out crusade, like my guild literally put together 40% of the Alliance contribution for, uh, opening the gates. And now you have all these other smaller guilds or a lot of them aren't even that much smaller than us, but they're not as nearly as organized. And they're like, oh, well, these guys are taking all the tags and they're working with the hoard. And it's like, that's literally like the point of this patch, right? But they're like coming up with reasons to like channel, like they're like jealousy or whatever. And it's like, I told my guild this, I was like, like people are obviously tired of this in my guild, like these guys are talking trash and stuff. Okay. Well, these are our tags. Like we've, we've earned the right to take these things. Like we, we put together 40% of the contributions to even open these gates. Like the, the gates don't open if without crusade, literally the gates don't open this month. And if they don't understand it, they don't understand it. Like they just don't, but, but like we have to go and take like what we've earned. Like we've earned the right for that. So it's like the same thing I said, like literally like just take it like these guys are going to talk trash to you and whatever. And it's because like these are the same guilds that didn't spend any time prior to the patch coming out to put anything forward for the rest of the server. So if they're going to act like we're being a certain way, it's like they're dumb and they're jealous. And there's literally no way that anybody with any sense of logic, I'm turning this into something else now actually, but I was going to start ranting because this guy's like literally spamming me and whispers and it triggered in my head too. Yeah. So be careful about that. So notice within yourself, right? So I think that it is similar and what you advocate to your guild is exactly what you need to do for yourself. Which is to detach from it and recognize that like, you know, like jumping down into the mud and brawling with these people on the internet doesn't seem like, unless you want to do it for the sake of farming particular kinds of content, then by all means go for it. But don't let it, you know, for you, you, so like S-Fan, this is going to be sort of the last thing I'm going to say to you. I mean, you can ask questions that we can talk more, but like, this is the essence of what I'm going to say to you today. Okay. In your real life, you're grinding to open the gates. And in your case, the gates open when you give your parents this credit card. And so just like you tell your guild leaders, people can hate on you. That's fine. It can piss you off. That's fine. You're allowed to feel that way. And your guild members are allowed to feel hurt by the people who hate them. But at the end of the day, like you've got to focus on opening the gates because it doesn't happen unless the gates open. That is dharma duty responsibility. So you keep your focus on that. And then if, you know, you want to take a break every now and then to school some noobs, then go for it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I think like, and I think once all this stuff is like settled, like all this in game, like once the checkboxes are marked, they can kind of like go back to kind of having that like split up schedule of like, we we do, I start my stream. And like I said, like guild meeting every day, right? Like where it's like, it's just chatting. And like, anybody watches my stream for any type of content, like that, that that part of my stream is for like everybody, right? And then then I move into whatever game I'm going to play some days, it'll be wow, some days, it'll be variety. And then that way, like, I'll get like that, hopefully, like, I'll get like that creative fulfillment. I hope so too. I really do. So as spend, I can say from the bottom of my heart, dude, that I'm rooting for you. I think your pursuit is noble. And you are righteous. And don't get distracted. And don't don't give in to worry. Because worry too causes you to like over heal, spend mana over healing, because you want to show either sure they're top dot, you know, healing and efficiency and wow is actually about healing as little as possible. Right about playing it safe. Yeah. And, and when you sacrifice a lot of yourself to like make sure that no one is gonna dislike you. You know, you make your contributions and those are seen. And you have to be able to tolerate the worry that they may say, they may think less of you. Because otherwise, you're just over healing and wasting a bunch of energy. Okay. Yeah. He has a pop of mana potion. Then. But yeah, your fridge is open. Yeah. So Okay. Yeah. And that's that's kind of Yeah. Yeah, I think that's kind of what I gotta do and kind of get back to more of like I said, like it's not about classic. Wow. It's about like classic s fan and just even even whatever I streaming more more streaming Wow, like how I was streaming while on YouTube and like, I did my wow streams two, three days a week. And you know, I did the show and it was fun. It was, you know, I because I played more of a character even on YouTube where it was like, it was almost like, s fan on YouTube was a lot more like the best description like to compare it to like how I acted on YouTube. If you've seen any like my old YouTube videos and stuff like I was I was guest on from Beauty and the Beast. Kind of the arrogant idiot like number one rep Paladin. I was like, like rep Paladin is best class in the game. But on private servers, people got it. People like they understood like the satire and they thought it was funny. But for some reason, something happened in classic Wow, that that people they take it way too seriously. Yeah, man. And like, it's weird. And it made me like not do that as much anymore. But I just want to do that. Like I think it's funny. Yeah, dude, I think you should. I mean, I think you should call them. I get that. I get that. I mean, I think you should call them. I get the sense that classic Wow is filled with like, fedora wearing baristas who are like really, really purists about the quality of their coffee. Yeah, yeah. And it's weird. I haven't I mean, I haven't played with classic wow. But that's what it sounds like. And they just they just get their, you know, undies in a bunch. Very, very easily. And it wasn't like this in private service. That's the weirdest part. So these aren't people that were already playing classic wow for years. Like these are people that are like specific to this new community that came like came up whenever classic wow came out. Because I didn't I didn't experience some private servers on private servers. Like people like me, like, they like, oh, just, like, troll around and just pure goofy. Right. But something I think I don't know, it's like people who like play retail, but they weren't good enough at retail. So they had to attach themselves to something else. So they attached themselves to classic and then that's like a whole Yeah, yeah. But I don't know, I want to I want to bring that back a little bit more and have more fun with it and bring it back, man. Yeah, and people are gonna hate me before and they're like, not gonna get that I'm joking and it's satire or whatever. But like, I don't know, maybe I'll maybe at least feel better about now kind of that is just, you know, publish, like, edited DPS meters that show that that rep pallie out DPS is what I'm you know what I did? I changed the class colors on my DPS meters to make warriors the same colors palette I made in pink. And there's a hate comment on one of my YouTube videos. It's like, this is disgusting. Look at what s fan the the propaganda that he spreads throughout the wow community where he puts warriors as pink. So they think that their Paladin player is like, dude, I don't even think I deleted it or anything. I think it's on one of my YouTube videos. That's the best advertisement for your channel I can possibly think of. I don't know what video it was on. I wish I could pull it up because it is so like, I saw it and I was like, this is it, dude. This is it. This is this is the epitome right here. Somebody who doesn't understand the joke. Man, I wish I wish I had it. If I had it. Well, I look I'm just thrilled that you I mean, I was joking, but I think it's amazing that you actually did something like that. Yeah, like, that's just like, I don't know. I don't do that as much that much like stuff like that as much as I used to. And like, it sounds like you spend your wild streams grinding beetles, which sounds like, yeah. Well, I'm grinding orcs until until now. And now I'm doing beetles. So it's orcs and then beetles. So now now, yeah, I want to, like I said, I want to I want to get back to doing the kind of stuff that I was doing before and being more like getting that that sense of creative fulfillment back instead of just like streaming whenever I'm grinding grinding the game because there's parts of the game that are grind, but they don't have to be. It's just that the things that I want to accomplish are so it's like kind of kind of meeting this midpoint of like creative fulfillment plus in game accomplishment, like personal fulfillment. Yeah. And I gotta I gotta hit the apex of that somewhere. And some of this is going to come from not even just streaming Wow, it's going to come from streaming variety streaming, just chatting streaming, IRL doing stuff my friends like the friends that I've made over the years that like, we did better streams, like, like, yeah, all I think all of us, I think all my my entire friend group, all of our streams have grown ridiculously in the last two years, one to two years. Cool. But I think one to two years ago, we had streams that were better than the streams that we do now. But but it's just like, it's just how like Twitch works and you your channel grows and all that stuff. But like, I think not just me, but I think we all should try and get back to doing the kind of stuff that we did before, like, whether whether it was kind of the cooking streams that we used to do with train and as men, the IRL stuff. And I think part of is the corona stuff going on, like, that doesn't really help the situation. But like, I think like, once that stuff kind of gets settled, like, I really want to like, take a I want to try and get everybody like, kind of rally the troops and get people back together to do stuff again. Sounds like that's actually one of your strong suits. Yeah, I really want to do that. Because I think I think we're all kind of like leaving it on the table for like stuff that we can do. Cool. So I think that's something for sure. Any interest in meditating? Um, I've never really I've never tried that. You interested in trying? You're allowed to say no. I don't want you to feel pressured. Um, yeah, okay. We try. Okay. I don't really I mean, I don't I don't really like know how to meditate. Yeah, that's why I'm going to teach you. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah. I'm just trying to think a little bit about what I'm going to teach you. Okay. Okay. We're going to try something weird. Okay. Okay. So generally speaking, when people are pretty bad or have ADHD, I think that a lot of the standard techniques of meditation don't work very well, because your mind is going to be quite restless, and you're going to be thinking about a lot of stuff. Right. So what I want to teach you is maybe something that grounds you in your body, the best meditation techniques for vatas you can't do on stream. So my favorite meditation technique for people with a mind like yours is to tell them to go sit in like a cafeteria, which you shouldn't do now because of COVID. But go go to a place that's loud and noisy, and try to listen to as many different sounds as you can as rapidly as you can. As many sounds rapidly as I can. Yeah, and shift from sound to sound to sound to sound to sound without listening to it. So if you hear words, you just hear the words and then you hear footsteps and then you hear something clank, cell phone rings, kid is watching YouTube, someone walks by sneezing, coughing, silverware, drink, slurping, like that. Just bounce your mind around as fast as you can. Okay. So those kinds of techniques are actually quite effective, but if you've got the opportunity to do something like that, go to a loud place and just try to listen to as many sounds as you can as rapidly as you can. Like you've you you single out the sounds and you focus on them as opposed to like with all these sounds going on as opposed to you have all the sounds going off at the same time and it just sounds like one sound. It's your that like dissecting it. Exactly. And you're moving from one sound to the other. So the way that we're going to so here's the thing to understand about your mind, S.Fan. So your mind is very, very active and you think about a lot of different things. Uh huh. So how do we get a very, very active child to sit still? I have a four year old. How do I get her to sit still? Put her in a car seat. I don't know. Yeah, you can do that. Right. So we can we can stick you in a sensory deprivation chamber. It's actually a good answer. But you know, those also can be tricky. But generally speaking, you know, the way to get a kid to sit still is by having him run around. Oh, yeah, you tire him out. Yeah, absolutely. So this is what we have to do to your mind. If we want your mind to be still, we have to tire it out. OK, and engaging with a thought breeds more thoughts. If you get that lost down a chain of thinking, then it can feel overwhelming. And then you're like thinking and thinking. So all we want to do is we like this thought, let it go, this thought, let it go, this thought, let it go, this thought, let it go. So you can do that with sound. So what I'm going to teach you is something actually very different from that. But what I what I want you to do, I'm going to teach you something in your body that I want you to pay attention to certain physical sensations. OK, so we're going to start, we'll try two things and then you let me know which one works. So I want you to sit up straight. OK. I may have to start by OK, so yours looks nice and straight. OK, so what I want you to do is I want you to put your hands together like this. Now put make your elbows parallel to the ground. Yeah, that's good. So when you say Frick, we're doing the right thing. So now what I want you to do is pay attention to the sensation in your hands. What do you feel? There's pressure on my fingertips. OK, where else do you feel pressure? On my wrists. OK, so I want you to notice each fingertip one at a time. OK, so focus on your pinkies. OK, index fingers. OK, find all of these different points on your hands in which you feel pressure and move from one to the next as rapidly as possible. OK. OK, and now tell me what you're focusing on. Say it out loud. OK, pinky ring finger, middle finger, pointer finger, thumb, the top of my palms, base of my hand, wrist, elbows. OK, good. Beautiful. So now we're not done. Oh, sorry. OK, now what I want you to do, I want you to pull your fingers, pull your hands apart a little bit. OK, so they're not touching from the bottom or from the top. So they're not touching. Look at me. Now, what do you feel? More pressure on my wrists. More stretch on my wrists. Yep. But there's no pressure on my hands. Now I want you to try to bring them as close together as you can without touching. OK, more pressure on the wrists. OK, and now pull your palms out a little bit. And feel the heat between your palms. Do you feel that? Yeah, a little bit. Yeah, it's weird, right? OK, what are you thinking? I don't know. I looked at chat and somebody said fire mage and made me laugh. Absolutely, dude. So this is the fire mage meditation. OK, so now what I want you to do is start to pull apart your hands. Ignore chat, pull apart your hands and try to focus on the heat between them. Fire mage, right? And what I want you to do is see how far you can pull your hands apart before you lose the fire. OK, about this far. OK, now try to pull it a little bit further apart. Ignore chat and try to find the fire. So you may be having thoughts, which is OK, right? So you're laughing and then return to the sensation between the palms. Now bring them close together again. Compress that fire. OK. Right. And now you're having thoughts again. So notice those thoughts and now bring your palms back together. We're going to go back to this all the way together. Put them together, elbows straight and now feel the pressure again. OK, feel that heat return to your fingers. Now close your eyes. Just feel that pressure. Try to feel as many points of contact as you can. See, there are the thoughts. You see how there's a war going on right now between your thoughts and your attention. You're thinking funny thoughts, you're thinking silly thoughts, and then you try to bring your mind back to your palms. And then like joke pops up. Joke pops up. Yeah, I'm a little bit former. And that's OK. That's why we're doing this. Right. So we want those jokes to pop up. It's great because I think somehow you're tapping into your funny and creative side in this moment, which I think should help you stream, which is cool. And now pull them apart a little bit and feel go back to Fire Mage. OK, so, yep. And feel that heat. OK. And then joke pops up and focus on that sensation. And your attention is bouncing back and forth. Your mind is pulling you away from the sensation of the Hadouken that you're making between your hands. But you can return to the sensation and you have a thought. Return to the sensation, have a thought. Put your hands back together and feel the points of contact. There we go. See, now he's like shaking his neck. Now he's getting into it. You're going to show us a real fireball now. Right. And now what I want you to do is take, pull your hands apart. And now I want you to put your right palm inside of your left palm. Lay your right palm flat. Like this? Open your eyes and look at me like this. Oh. And now, yep. And now put them down in your lap. Face up so you're making like a circle with your arms. OK. No looking at Twitch chat. So like you're forming a circle and then close your eyes like this. Close your eyes and just sit. OK. And feel the relaxation. Let your arms relax. Let your wrists relax. Focus on the very, you know, the sensation of relief. See, there are the thoughts. The thoughts are going to continue coming. Right. So just see them. Appreciate how funny they are. Appreciate how classic S-Fan would have a field day with this. And then let yourself return to the sensation of relaxation in your wrists. To the tiny little fire which is above your right palm. OK. To the heat of your left palm on your, on the back of your right hand. The points of contact. And just be with yourself. If thoughts come, that's OK. Let them go and return to whatever sensation now you choose. I've given you a half dozen. And we're going to just hold this position for about 60 seconds. OK. I just try the different, the different positions, I guess. And see how it feels. Whatever you want to do. Just anything that brings your attention to the present and, and lets you pull yourself away from your thoughts. I would encourage you now to be still. OK. And just focus on the sensations in your body. You can focus on your breath. OK. Now I will initiate you into the final fire mage technique. OK. Your palms together. Keep your hands closed. Put your palms together in front of you. OK. Do I have my eyes? Nope. Eyes closed. Put your palms together in front of you. Palms facing, yeah. Very like in the must-day position. And now rub them together. And feel the heat. Rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub. Feel that nice warmth and friction. Cup them over your eyes. Cup your palms over your eyes. Good. Take a deep breath in. As you exhale, go ahead and open your eyes, shielded by your palms. And when the breath completes, let your hands come down. And now you're a level one fire mage. Not to level this alt. What was that like for you, Espen? Did you get a sense of what was the experience like? Um, this is interesting. It was like, I guess, like, mentally, and thinking about all this stuff, like, like, kind of trying to, like, separate out, like, every, like, I guess, sensation going on, right? Like, where it's like, OK, like, I can feel like my my fingertips, like, separately, like, touching together, or like, oh, I'm doing this. And like, I feel like a stretch in my elbows, right? From tendonitis and lifting weights and football and stuff, right? Like, so it's like, I kind of, kind of like how you talked about, like, doing it in a busy cafeteria with a bunch of different sounds going off. It was the same thing, except it's, like, just your own body. And then, like, it kind of, like, my brain is like this all the time. Yep. So, like, I would keep like, OK, like, this is funny. This is this, this is that. But then, like, I would just like, keep trying to reset. So it's like, almost like training my brain to, like, not, maybe not to not do that, but to whenever it does happen, reel it back. Exactly what it is. That's what meditation is. So if anyone is confused about what meditation is, S-Fan is just given the essence of the definition of meditation. After, like, two minutes, and never having done it before. So people think that meditation is having a still mind, incorrect. Meditation is the practice of pulling your mind where you want it to go. So what I want you to understand is each time you have a funny thought, that is an opportunity for you to do a rep. And the interesting thing is that some people think they're bad at meditation because their mind keeps wandering. On the contrary, you're getting really swole. Because some people who have a calm mind would have done five reps in two minutes. You did 200. And the more reps you do, the better you get at pulling your mind back. And now, S-Fan, this is how this is going to help you. You're going to be, you're going to log on to your computer one day and you're going to see a YouTube comment and your mind is going to want to run off in a particular direction. And if you do this practice, you're going to be swole and you're going to be like, uh-uh, like, it's fine. Like the dog got out the door, come back. And then the dog is going to come back because you will have practiced bringing it back over and over and over and over again. And you're going to have a thousand different thoughts and you're going to be overwhelmed because your dog wants to run all over the place and you'll have practiced and you're going to say, uh-uh, heel boy. And then the mind is going to come back. Uh-huh. I see what you're saying. Good job. Yeah. I see what you're saying. Right? So it's okay. Like have those thoughts, like they're hilarious, go for it. And then return, return, return, return, return, return. Right. And each time you return, literally what you're doing is you're wiring your neurons to form a habit of focusing on the thing that you tell it to focus on. Yeah. When neurons get wired, I want you to think about like a field where there's no trails. And then one day the first animal that crosses the field has to push down a lot of grass. Right? Does that make sense? Like you walk through the grass and then you leave a trail, right? You with me or did I just lose you? No, no, no, no. I'm listening. And then, then what happens is like, it's hard the first time because the grass is pretty tall. And then the second person that walks is a little bit easier because the grass has been trampled a little bit. Right? Like I'm envisioning tall grass. And then the more times that you go down that path, that is how neurons form a habit. That is how you literally change your brain to control your attention. You have to do it over and over and over again. Each one of those is a rep until what happens is there's a natural game trail. And then more and more animals go down it without any effort. And then even right now it's effortful to bring your mind back to the task at hand. If you do this enough, it's going to be automatic that your mind goes to where it's supposed to go. And that shit is OP. When your mind automatically does what you intended to do, that's when life becomes on easy mode. Right. Because you don't have to fight with your mind anymore. It just does it automatic. Right. Like a natural game trail. And then the more you do it, it's like working with each other. Huh? Instead of instead of constantly trying to like work against itself. Exactly. And then my hope for you is that if you do this practice, you continue doing what you're doing, you're you're thoughtful and creative. My hope is that sometime soon you will give your parents a credit card. Right. Any last thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day? Um, trying to think if there's anything else on my mind that's relevant to what we're talking about. Um, I think this was really good. And I think this helps a lot to kind of like, nail some things down. Because, like, I feel like, like I said, like, I even took a break from streaming and just kind of been trying to like figure out exactly like where I'm at. Um, just kind of just kind of like, I don't know. I think it helps. Cool. I think I kind of have a plan. Yeah. I'm happy to hear it, dude. Listen, man, I wish you all the best of luck. Seriously. And you keep pounding this away and that which made you a football player. And, you know, like you have that work ethic in you. You have the capability. All you need to do is just get your, you know, like you need to get all of your buttons nice and clean and doing what you want to do. Yeah. Okay. That analogy sort of blew up in the. No, no, but I, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it. I got it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got to, I got to set, I got to set my, I set my key binds and. Exactly. Yeah. That's what we're doing. Yeah. Second, thank you very much. Yeah. No, I think that's good. Okay. Yeah. I think, uh, because I'm going to be honest, I'm excited about, about things that I want to stream in. Wow. Now, especially with this new patch coming out. Good. But, um, but. Give it to us, baby. Turn around, like how to, how to bring it back. So I don't know, could be. Yeah. Show us a little bit of that, that sweet, sweet classic ass band. Yeah, for sure. One thing too, I did, like I moved my desk. I was in that room before I, that's why I have all this junk everywhere is cause I, I just, uh, like I built, I bought a new desk and cause I thought like, I need to just like, cause, cause I'm, I moved into this house, right? Whenever classic beta came out and like, I've been in that room for, since, since closet came out. So I was like, I just need to like leave this place. Good. And move into a different room and just reset. Yeah. Good. So, so. Cause it like happened. All of that happened like at the same time. This is a little bit hypocritical cause I'm still moving too, but clean up your room. It'll focus your mind better. Yeah. That's what that's, that's another thing. And like, it's just, there's boxes and stuff everywhere from like, I ordered some stuff and I have them too. So a little bit hypocritical, but I've done it anyway. Good luck, man. Yeah. Take care of you. Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay. That was for