 If I were to sit here and say, Oh, I've found a point where I stopped comparing myself, right? Because I'm trying to like somehow, uh, give off this or that I've figured it out. Yeah, right. It's like, no, I haven't figured it out. Yeah, man. Thanks for coming on. Oh, thanks for having me. Um, and so I mean, do you go by train? Whatever you want, you know, uh, Tyler train, train wreck, you know, uh, yeah. What do you prefer? Uh, you know, uh, just whatever rolls off the tongue, you know, does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. What about you? You know, can I go doc, dr K K? Sure. You can call doc. You can call me dr K. You can call me all oak if you want to. It's not all maple. It's all oak. Okay. Can you oak, you know, like doc, you know, oak or just doc? We can do doc doc school with me. Yeah, cool. So I may, I may bounce around between train and Tyler until I figure out which one rolls better off the tongue. Is that cool? Yeah. Yeah. Trains. Just, uh, what is that? Is that one still train, right? Tyler, right? Train train train rolls off the tongue. Yeah. Yeah. Done, buddy. Perfect. Yeah. So tell me, um, is there something in particular you wanted to kind of talk about today? Uh, you know, I have no idea. You know, uh, um, you know, uh, is there something you want to talk about? Yeah. I mean, so I can ask you a couple of questions. I didn't have something. So, um, you know, I just love to hear a little bit about, uh, how you came to be a streamer and, and kind of, yeah, how that happened. Yeah. Um, you know, uh, so I'm Persian, I'm Iranian and, you know, for me, you know, I can do, you know, I can do whatever I want, you know, in life, but, you know, usually we're pressed, you know, toward like, you know, doctor or lawyer, engineer, things like this, probably more so doctor lawyer area. Um, both my parents are engineers. Um, you know, gave me my whole life, you know, the typical spiel, you know, get off the computer, do something with your life. You know, that, you know, the typical bullshit, you know, can I, can I, can I, or is this, I think so. Yeah. Okay. Just as long as it's not against TOS. Oh, now we're good. Okay. Um, well, unless you have a sponsor, that's, you know, more PG than it might be, but it's fine, man. Okay. Fuck it then. Okay. Anyways, you know, uh, yeah, just, you know, gaming, you know, Diablo two great game. Hell yeah, man. Phenomenal runs buddy. Yeah. Oh, great. Mephisto runs amazing, you know, phenomenal. Wow. Good days. Anyways, you know, just gamed and, uh, one day, you know, I found Twitch and started streaming and, you know, uh, came to Austin, did some collabs with another streamer and we both, uh, you know, ran Twitch, you know, it was absolutely amazing. What does that mean? Ran Twitch. Just number one, you know, top of the game. Oh, wow. There's a pyramid. Yeah. Top pyramid. Right. Wow. And, uh, yeah, you know, uh, we both went our separate ways and, you know, I grinded and yeah, now I'm here. I guess I just stuck, you know, you know, man, I have a big head. Have you noticed that? I actually have a pretty big head. I looked at, you know, I don't know what's going on. It's I'm telling you, it's the quarantine stuff. No gym. My head's just, I have to really keep, I have to maintain the gym in order to keep my frame bigger and then my head looks proportional. But when I get skinny, I just have a really big head. Does that make any sense? Uh, yeah. I mean, I can sort of see what you're saying. I think your head looks relatively normal size to me, or I wonder if it's because of your posture, right? So you're leaning in. So if I lean in, my shoulders are going to look smaller and my head is going to look bigger. But I mean, I think it's cool that you're, I mean, so leaning in is like good though, right? Yeah. I mean, it's like engaging. I mean, I think that may be part of the reason you're number one, because when you stream, you lean in. Well, I'm not number one now, but at the time in my heart train. Oh, my man. See, that's what I'm saying. I like that. Perfect. Right. So like, I mean, you be you, right? So, so yeah. And if you, you know, it sounds like you had a little bit of self con like feeling self conscious there for a second. No, I just, uh, I, I told myself I wouldn't drink coffee, uh, before this, why not? Because you know, you know, coffee's good for me when, you know, I got a tournament or I have a tournament, you know, but when I want to, you know, calm down, get my, you know, yeah. So do you want to be calm? You want to be calm, relax, you know, I want to, you know, eloquently, you know, get my, you know, but right now I'm just kind of just a little jittery. Does that make sense? Yeah, sure. And is that because of the coffee? Are you nervous or? No, yeah, it's the coffee. You know, I get this really good thing. It's called this cold brew. Get a little sweet cream in there. Delicious. Delicious man. And yeah, it just, it puts me in this, it puts me in this, this just mental block area. You know, I get body energy, but the mind just becomes a zombie. And it's just, you know, you know, just that's, yeah, that sounds really fascinating. I'd love to learn more about that. I wonder if other people also experienced that. Can we talk about that for a couple of minutes? Yeah, let's do it. I'm cool with that. Tell me what you mean by mental block and like body energy. So I feel like coffee, right? I feel like it puts me on a one tunnel route, right? And all I'm focused on, I don't know if you can hear the, you know, the lawnmower, I apologize, or the, you know, the Bushwhacker. I don't know what you call that. You know, the, and I'm talking about terrible pubes in the other room. Yeah, something like that. I'm not sure what's going on. But that thing that that noise is probably the number one PTSD in the world, right? Like all those weekends sleeping in, and then at 530am, you hear the and then finally, you know, it dissipates, right? And then out of nowhere, you think it's done, it comes back. They're circling back. Yeah, yeah, it's terrible. Yeah, you know, you finally get some relief. And then finally, it comes right back. You open the window, you look down there, and you can't say anything, you feel bad because that's like someone's job. Yeah, anyways, I feel like my mind is put on this highway, this one tunnel, one way road highway to get to the other end, right? So it's good for that. If you need to get work done, and your work is in one category, you know, it works for that because it puts you in that kind of autopilot mode, and it gives your body energy and it puts your mind in a one track, you know, area. But for me, since I'm like, I'm very emotional, and I want to kind of passionately, you know, and deeply explain things, which requires multiple perspectives at one time simultaneously happening. Does that make sense? Yeah, it doesn't allow it. It makes me more of a simple, you know, caveman kind of club against the, you know, dragging the club against the ground or, you know, I mean, fire or you know, does that make sense? Yeah, so let me just see if I hear you. And then you let me know if I kind of am capturing it. So on the one hand, like, so what I'm hearing is that coffee sort of focuses your mind, right? Gives you sort of tunnel vision. And tunnel vision. Yeah. Yeah. So then like, you can't really see alternate perspectives. And maybe kind of what you're thinking is that especially in a conversation like this one, part of what we want to do is like, draw from different kind of perspectives, right? Not just think in a very narrow way, but like, think a little bit emotionally, think a little bit more like open mindedly. And maybe coffee like interferes with your ability to do that. Yes, I think so. Yeah, I think in like 15 minutes, I'll be good. I just it's the initial it's the initial boost, I think it pushes me. So imagine, my brain can take so much focusing, whatever, right? And the coffee shoots me overboard, where my brain doesn't know what to do with it. And I just, I become confused and in a state of confusion, I can't properly get, you know, my brain won't choose the right words. And, you know, I know what I want to say, but I can't get it out. But after like 1520 minutes, I kind of even out. Sure. So that's actually exactly how caffeine affects your bloodstream. So you tend to get a spike, and then it evens out over time. So perfect. Yeah, so it's like physiologic, man. And are you feeling like you're not able to find the words right now? Yeah, that's why I was hoping like, the reason I was hesitant. Yeah, well, the reason I was hesitant to come on is because I'm someone that for me, it's like a day by day thing. If I wake up, and everything's good and clear, I'm in that passionate emotional mood, I can perfectly like, you know, put on the table what I want to say. And then some days I wake up and I just I'm just so, you know, I just, you know, I can understand why people are surprised why I have two degrees, I can fully understand where they're coming from. Right? Because I just there's, you know, it's just it's not there. Right? So what if I told you that you you're speaking very clearly to me? You know, I've been told that the last I think two podcasts ago, Devin told me the same thing, and I felt like I was being very unclear. See that that's the weird part. I've been told that by many people that I talked to when I feel like I'm in a state of, you know, unclarity, not clarity. What's the word is unclarity? unclarity sounds weird. Lack of clarity? Lack of when I'm in a state of when I'm in a state of fogginess. Thank you. That's good. Yeah, that's good. Fogginess. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, it's kind of interesting. Yeah, because I mean, you're talking about, you know, but I understand that sometimes you have good days and bad days. And I think maybe there's like, something to explore about, like, so our mind does have fluctuating states of consciousness. Right? So there are some days that you wake up, and you're kind of like driven and focused. And some days that you wake up, and you like, really don't feel like doing anything. And so I think there's something to be learned about, like, how do we deal with that? Right? So we, I think a lot of times we get, we assume that people who are successful are successful because of something like discipline, but there's natural variability in terms of how on the ball we are. And so how do you deal with, you know, kind of some days where you're not on the ball, and some days where you are on the ball. And also, there's like something else to think about, which is that, you know, sometimes it seems to me like there's a pattern where your perception is that you're more, you subjectively feel foggy, but other people may not be able to tell. And actually you're communicating quite clearly. Like, what do you think about that? That actually makes complete sense. I mean, I think of it like a pimple. So what I mean by that is, it's kind of like when you get a pimple in the morning, right? And you look at it and this thing, it's this hideous, disgusting thing on your face, but no one else notices it. No one else even sees it. When they look at you, they see you, they see normal you, you look fine to them. But to you, you see this horrendous, huge, you know, James and the giant peach sized pimple on your face that's distracting of every other quality you have, right? So I think it's the same thing, right? You see it, you notice these small little differences, but no one else really does until you point them out. Buddy, you're firing all cylinders today, because that was a phenomenal analogy. And it's so true, right? Like, I mean, but so like, train, like, how does that work? Like, why does our mind do that? Why does our mind take something that feels insignificant? Or sorry, that feels so significant, but that the rest of the world just, I mean, we have our own pimples to think about. You know, we're not thinking about yours. Like, what's that happen, man? I think it's, unfortunately, I think it's, you know, I think it's just, you know, today's world society, I think we have, I think, I think the world that we're trying to create for like our children that ends up, you know, being for me and I grow open to it. It's to give us less like problems to solve and more of enjoying, enjoying the solutions. Okay, what I'm trying to say is, we're put into this world where we don't, if we had like serious to deal with, if we were more into the real world, and there's serious to deal with these superficial small little bullshits, wouldn't we wouldn't be trained to look for these like superficial flaws that right, we're bored, we're bored, there's nothing else to do, there's nothing of importance that's actually, you know, reflecting of, you know, true character and true, whatever the hell. So now we're stuck. Does that make any sense? Yeah, so this is the part where, okay, good. So, so now I want you to do something, train, I'm going to repeat back to you what I heard. Okay, go ahead. And then if you were truly incoherent, then what I repeat back is not going to make sense. Okay. But if I repeat back, and you feel like that's what you were trying to say, the only way I can know that is if you were coherent. Perfect. Right. So what I'm hearing is that like, maybe your parents had like real problems to deal with. And what's happened now is like, they worked on solutions to those problems, and they actually succeeded. And so our generation grew up without those kinds of real problems. And so something about today's society causes us to take not problems and make them problems. Yes, that's exactly right. I think that's right. Right. So like, you know, the real, so for example, my dad came here with nothing. And he had it, you know, he had to take care of, he was pretty much the dad and the mom for his siblings. And he had, you know, he finished his university in three years, you know, as opposed to the normal average four years. And he did that while balancing two jobs, so he can support all of his siblings and put them, college and, you know, financially support them and you know, their, their dreams. So like, so when he sees a family, he's like, who cares, right? Or when he sees a cockroach or a cricket on the ground, he's like, ah, that's nothing, right? Whereas I feel like me and others and people this generation, it's like, you know, these small little things, it's like, these are like, holy shit, like, how is he right? We make these like, totally irrelevant. And I don't want to use this word, but I'm gonna use it because I can't think of any of the other like, we're complete sissies. Does that make any sense? Like, if we were to put us into the, you know, barbarian days of like, hunting and gathering, you know, we'd probably be dead, you know? Yeah, it makes sense. I just don't know if I entirely agree with you. Because I think if you put us in the barbarian days, we'd adapt and yeah, you're damn right. Yeah, we'd adapt. I know I was I was using an exaggeration to kind of get my point across. Yeah. So but I mean, I think it so the the interesting thing is that, you know, we are sissies, sure. But I think what I would say, train or just something. Well, we're not you and I aren't, but everyone else. Am I not? No, both you and I would survive easily. You kidding me? Easy. I don't know. I mean, no, we survived. Trust me. I mean, you may survive. You seem like kind of a beast. But I'd probably get eaten because like a tiger would show up and I try to talk to it about its feelings. And then it would be no sneak. No, that works. You don't know why? Because every beast, every beast that's seen as a beast, truly doesn't want to be seen as a beast. It's the people who aren't beasts that want to be seen as the beast, the beast, the beast that's actually a beast wants to be seen for his inside, the emotional, the good, the small. So technically having you around, you talk to me about emotions, I'd appreciate that you'd see me for me and not my shell. And then I'd protect you. While you and I exchange. Does that mean well, exchange sounds like we're doing some sort of like, you know, some blowjob stuff. We're not doing that. I'm just saying exchanges and like exchange our gifts or talent. Okay, that makes it worse. But you know what I mean? Right? Well, actually, this time, I don't know what you mean. Because it sounds like you're talking about blowjobs. Exchange our talents. Yeah, you know, here, train, let me show you my talent. Oh, my man. Let's see. We're getting in. We're going in. So yeah, I think go ahead. Yeah. So I mean, here's here's a thought. So like, one thing that I sometimes wonder about is whether our mind was actually like, evolved to worry about things. And that we have circuitry in our brain that like helps us worry about things. And so it gets kind of confused because it's almost like, you know, if you if you have like a dog, and you don't give it like stimulation or toys, it's going to start like tearing into your couch cushions. True. Yes. That's right. And so it's kind of like our mind is going to find something to worry about, because it is strange, like, because I look at people and what Buddha actually said is that suffering is like a given in life, that we always think that suffering comes from something on the outside, like being an immigrant and working two jobs and, you know, but even if we don't have that, like, and you could describe a lot of suffering, the interesting thing is, I'm not so sure that your dad suffered, I think he sacrificed a lot. Sounds clear to me that he sacrificed and that you respect him. I'd love to hear more about it, by the way. But that, you know, actually, I think what the suffering that we see is that we're in a world where the most that we can't worry about are pimples. And actually, what I hear from from our community is that they they long for like, a challenge, a test to to like, be in a situation that actually causes them to struggle and find meaning. You know, to not just wake up every day and like play games and like worry about the zits on their face. They're hungering for something almost more of like, I mean, I almost hear like, a sense of envy around, you know, being challenged and like, like really rising, because what they want is they want to be eaten or, or to win. Right? They, they just want anything except for this kind of mind numbing autopilot of like, dopamine kick to dopamine kick to dopamine kick. The saddest thing though is, I'll tell you the saddest thing about that. The saddest thing is, I truly believe that longing for something is the very thing that we actually need. What I mean by that is that longing, that is the amazing feeling that the need or that that that ongoing like, that state of longing is what you need. As soon as you get that thing that you believe you're longing for, you realize it's not what you thought of in your mind. It's not the adventure you thought it was. The thinking, the wanting of the adventure is the beautiful part. But once you're there, once you're doing the adventure that you believe is what's going to make everything better, it's never what it actually seems or is. Does that make any sense? It's the, does that make any sense? Yeah. So once again, I'm going to try this one more time. I'm going to repeat back to you what I heard and you tell me if it makes sense. Okay, cool. That, I mean, it can be summed up, I think, in it's about the journey, not the destination, you know, and maybe kind of to be a little bit more detailed, it's sort of like, it's the longing or the wanting that actually causes you to grow and to push and to strive. And when you actually achieve, that's not, I mean, everyone looks from the outside at the achievement, but for the achiever, it's somewhat dissatisfying. And actually, like what you appreciate is that there's a, there's like a force within you that propels you forward. And it's the force that propels you. That's actually the really important part. Yes. The longing is the, it's the flame that keeps you going. Right. What do you, what do you, what do you long for, Trane? See, so when I give advice, like on a surface level for surface level issues, you know, nothing deeper, obviously, I'll refer them to like a psychologist, psychiatrist, and, you know, we'll take care of the sessions and stuff. But like, for like the surface level stuff, like the advice I give, you know, I've done a lot of hard drugs in my past, obviously, don't do drugs, anybody, it's dumb. But what's gotten me out of them, what's allowed me to get out of these like heavy, heavy addictions is exactly what we're talking about now. It's this anchor. It's this longing of something and I'll tell you in a second what it is, that I buried deep, deep inside of me. And that that longing for that special thing, I know I can never actually obtain it. But I know it's also not impossible. It's just, it's just improbable. But that small percent chance to hope that one day I can is the flame and it's what gets me through everything. It's what gets me out of everything. Does that make any sense? Yeah, so curious. What's the flame? Okay, so okay, this is gonna sound real, real, you know, real dumb to a lot of people. But you know, it is what it is, right? So my entire life, oh, not my entire life, but my entire life, you know, of, you know, since like 1516. I had this mountain spot I drive to. Okay, I dropped to the top to the highest point in the mountain, you know, probably broke a couple of laws to get there, but it's okay. It's not okay, you guys shouldn't break any laws to get anywhere. But I did. I don't know why I had announced that part. But you know what, let's let's backtrack. There's a mountain spot. And I used to go up there. How I got there is irrelevant, but I got there. Um, and on this mountain spot, I'd always go late at night. And, you know, it was a place where I would reflect, I would think I would kind of discover, you know, the true adventure at the start of everything is, you know, discovery of self in my opinion, right? Diving deep into your own mind and facing like the darkest, you know, portions of yourself that, you know, every day you tell yourself you're not. But then to the day, in order to find out who you are, you have to face these and figure out, you know, you know, these different points, you know, the high points are great. But I think the real, you know, the real journey in the real, you know, path to like self discovery is facing the darkest points of yourself. Anyways, so I go to these places and I'd stare out into the stars. And I'd stare out deep, you know, I'd start past the stars, you know, into the night sky. And it was almost like this, this, this like vision type thing that would happen in my mind. I would picture a world that best fit what I felt like this world should be, right? And I would see that world. I would see myself in that world. I'd see the purpose that I want, you know, the storyline that everybody wants or that they see themselves in with a TV series they look they best relate to. And I'd see that for me, right in a world that I think is possible to get to, you know, no matter how, you know, improbable it might be, but I think it's, you know, so possible. I picture that world. And what's in that world is that is my longing. It's the adventure. It's the magic. It's the, it's the find something that is, that is just less than, you know, just something that isn't, you know, the uncharted, you know, something that isn't mapped, something that isn't ruined by the spoils of technology. Technology gets us, it tells us everything. It spoils the ending, right? Like, does that make any sense? Like, it sounds like you want to explore. Yes, I want to explore, but I don't want to actually know. It's the unknowing that keeps me going, right? It's the possibility of something out there that cannot be explained, right? It's the inexplainable that keeps me going. Does that make any sense? Yeah, I mean, it does. I'm still a little bit. I'm curious, like when you say you picture a world that you want to live in, what does that look like? It's more of a feeling than it is a look. What is that feeling? I mean, the feeling is it's adventure magic. It's loyalty. It's brotherhood. You know, it's, it's, you know, I think it's things that we see in these, like, you know, in these, like, you know, it's the connections that we see in these, like, these TV series or these movies of these, like, heroes or villains that have this connection that we'll never see in this world. And when we do, if we do, it's a once in a lifetime, one out of, you know, seven billion people type of, right? What kind of connection? It's a longing for a brotherhood, right? I don't know. Does that make any sense? Sure. I mean, so longing for brotherhood makes sense. You know, I... It's like a adventure magic. That's just, that's the best way I can explain the emotion that I feel. Does that make any sense? Yeah. Let me toss something out. So then you tell me, right? Because if you're tossing something out, let's see what we heard. Okay. So, I mean, I get the sense of, like, you're going on a journey, right? And you don't know where you're going to end up. It's kind of uncharted waters, but you're not doing it alone. And it's going to be hard. It's not going to be like easy. Like the things that you're going to have to face aren't going to be like zits and retweets on Twitter. It's going to be like real challenge, right? Like the kind of trials and tribulations of it, right? It's what... But also like to share those with people. Like, it's kind of like, you know, doing something more than what you can accomplish as an individual, but like working with a band of people. It's what keeps that... It's what brings those band of people together, right? It's the trials and tribulations. It's the... Unity. Yeah. See, I think what builds real unity, and this is what I talk about all the time, like, I think the reason I am the way I am is because of... I feel like my generation was the last generation to like, you know, have a little biker gang or a go-ped gang or a little, you know, scooter gang of your friends and you, you know, dominate the neighborhoods and go through the canals. You buy smoke bombs at the store and act like you're all CIA agents, you know, on a secret mission, but it's really just you and three others and it's your imagination that's working. I think it's... Yeah. It's just having an actual, you know, having like... Yeah. You know, I'm not sure. Keep going. I think you're going well before I cut you off. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so what I'm hearing is it's kind of like a sense of... Like, it sounds like you're partying up, you know, like you've got your crew and what you really long for is to like share experiences with other people that bring you together and like that those experiences are real and challenging and authentic. Yeah. Yes. And I just want there to be something that matters, right? A purpose, something that... Doing something that matters, I think is the most important part. Being a part of something that's... Trane, what do you do that matters? Uh, I don't know. I guess advice streams, maybe. I don't know. The advice stream, I think... Do you feel like you do things that matter even if you can't name them? Yeah. I think I do, but I think when I have to say them out loud, I think it takes away from it a little bit. Does that make any sense? I feel like the things that matter when you have to say them out loud, which sucks a lot of times, I feel like I'm in a position with how people see me. I feel like I have to... Sometimes I'm in a position where I have to say them out loud and it hurts me the most when I have to, but I feel like I need to because a lot of times the complete opposite narrative is written, right? So I'm putting a situation where I need to say them out loud, but I feel like it just really diminishes. Yeah. Does that make any sense? Yeah, because I think... If I can just share a story with you. So I had a patient who was suicidal and we had an appointment on a Wednesday and they came in on Wednesday and they said, it was bizarre. I was acutely suicidal on Tuesday morning and I'd actually decided to kill myself. I was like, oh my goodness, that's kind of weird, right? Because you're here today. Something happened. And then I kind of talked to them and I was like, so what happened? And they said, well, I figured if I'm going to kill myself, I'm going to have at least my favorite candy bar before I die. So I decided to just walk out of my apartment. It was like 10 AM. Walked out of my apartment, walked to the store near my place and I was just like, okay, I'm going to go get my candy bar. So I got my candy bar, went to the checkout counter and bought the candy bar. And the person on the other side, the cashier, basically smiled at me and was like, have a nice day and we chatted for a few minutes. And I don't know what happened, but something in that moment, I was just so hopeless and thought that I was a complete piece of shit and that I didn't deserve to be here and I was burdening everyone. And that people, you care about me because you're my doctor and it's your job to care about me. My parents care about me because they're my parents and it's their job to care about me. Everyone cares about me, not because of who I am, but because they're supposed to. And here's this one person that doesn't have to care about me in any way, shape or form. There's no tip, right? It's not like it's just a cashier and it's like, and yet this person somehow like did something that made me realize like, oh, actually like maybe I do have value. And if you think about the description, buying something and the cashier saying, have a nice day, it doesn't capture the magnitude of what actually happened in that moment. And what I'm hearing you say is that maybe when you impact people, when you describe it, it doesn't capture the magnitude of what actually happens in those moments. And anytime you try to put it to words, something is lost. Well, and also I feel like not only that, yes. And not only that, I feel like talking about it removes the initial intention of like, so like, I just like to do these things. It's just how I'm wired. When you talk about it, it almost sounds as if you're doing it in order for it, for it to be seen, for you to be seen that way, like a manipulation of it to gain something, right? So that's also the other thing, does that make sense? It's almost like the psychology behind talking about what you do that's good versus just doing it and expecting no one to know and know nothing to come from it, right? So that's why I don't like talking about it. But yeah, but that story you gave, I like that a lot. That story you gave, I heard that before from you, and I actually talked about that to my stream. That's really, I love that. Because it's that small little ripple effect that just, that's the beauty I'm talking about. So that's the beauty. Trane, can I, okay, so a couple of times now you've asked me, does this make sense? And I'm not sure if I'm making sense. Can I actually try to like play that card myself? Yes. So I want to share something with you that I'm afraid isn't going to make sense. And it's going to be kind of weird and abstract. It's actually a principle from spirituality. Because I think what you mentioned is actually very well understood in like, Buddhism and Hinduism. So we oftentimes do things that are good or bad. And then we oftentimes talk or not talk about the things that happen to us that are good or bad. Okay, I know it sounds weird. So I'm gonna, I'm not gonna make sense. But basically, like, I can do something good, and I can share it, or I can do something good and not share it. And or what I can do is something bad can happen to me and I can share it and or something bad can happen to me and I can not share it with me. Yes. So what impact does sharing have on what you did? Not nothing at all, right? Like, disagree, nothing at all. Disagree. Really? Yes. Because you're telling me that when I share what I do, something feels diminished. I mean, nothing, nothing negatively impacts it positively possibly, right? Because you spread that. I know, but listen to what you're saying. You're telling me when I tell people what I do, it feels diminished. That's actually what you're telling. Right? So just because it's logically doesn't make sense doesn't mean that that's not what you're saying. I think it does make sense. It's just very few people understand this. You're telling me that I don't like to talk about it because it feels like I lose something. That's what you're telling me. Right? Can we agree on that? I think there's more power there than you realize. And that's why I want to try to explain. I think what I'm saying is I don't think you lose something. I think it's it's like this invisible under the table unspoken rule. For example, you know, like if I if I decide to offer to buy lunch, right? I don't bring it up and tell everyone and hold it over the head and say, yo, I bought, you know, I bought him lunch. I'm a good guy. Right? You just kind of you go about it like it was nothing. Right? Even if even if you sacrificed your lunch tomorrow, in order to pay for this guy's lunch today and tomorrow, you're going to starve. You don't you don't bring that out and make them feel bad about that. You take that L yourself. You take that battle yourself. You made exactly. Exactly. So yeah, it makes perfect sense. But I'm just repeating back what you're actually saying is that advertising the L changes something. Yes, that's what I'm saying. Right. So and it's weird, right? Because on the one hand, you're saying, oh, if you did something good, like, couldn't you spread positivity by sharing with other people? But that's exactly what I'm saying. So let's just think about this. OK. So talking about something diminishes its power. This is the principle that I'm going to share with you. OK. And so let's think about this. Let's say that you had a traumatic event. So like you get abused growing up or something like that. You have this like thing inside you that lives within you and never gets expressed. And what it does is it like compounds and it grows. Yes. And you don't talk about it. And then you do something like you go to therapy and you talk about it. And what it does is diminish the power of that which you hold inside. Make sense? Yes. And then on the flip side, like good stuff. So if you talk about good things, there's also some kind of diminishing of the power on the inside. And we know this, right? Like we know that there are people who start companies and there are people who talk about starting companies. And these are very different people. One group loves to talk about it. One group doesn't say shit. Which one's more successful? The group that does it doesn't talk. Absolutely. Right. So there are talkers and doers. And this goes to this very like deep principle from sort of like Eastern thinking that talking about something that you have a limited amount of energy. And the more that you put that energy out into the world by like talking about it, the more diminished you are. There's the guy who works out like five days a week and never tells a soul. And there's the dude who works out three days a week and wants to give workout advice to everyone. Yeah. Right. We know those people. And so this is also in the sort of Eastern science of mantra or mantra. A mantra is to be kept secret. And what a mantra is or mantra is is like you chant it. It's given to you by like a teacher of some kind. And then you're supposed to chant it. You don't share your mantra with anyone. Because what happens when you share your mantra is you diminish your power. And a mantra is almost like the opposite of a trauma. So a trauma is something that unless you share it, there's this negative energy within you that compounds and grows over time until you let it go. A mantra is a positive energy that every day you tell it to yourself, it grows within you. And the second you tell another soul, it gets vented out and it starts to compound and grow. But it's positive. And if you don't share it with someone, it's like you can feel it and it's there and it's pure and it's real. And you can impact that person because you're sharing a piece of your energy with them. But like if you tell other people, like some of that energy that would have gone their way or would have gone to you goes to other people in like some sort of weird egotistical way. And I think at the end of the day, it just goes to this general principle that talking diminishes the power of what is inside you. And we use that in therapy because we want to diminish the power of something inside them. And then, you know, there are people who are egotistical and brag all the time and they never get anything done. And it's the same principle is like therapy, because they're letting all that shit out so it doesn't exist within them. And even if we hear your story, there's something deeply personal and not sharing about you driving up to the mountaintop. And that's when you cultivate that flame within you. You go to this place and you don't show anyone, but you take this fire inside you, this magic, this sense of adventure, this longing for brotherhood, and you put fuel on it. And you don't tell anyone. It's not something you advertise. I mean, you could talk about it in front of the field. And so then what you do is you kindle it, right? You nurture it, and it grows. And every time someone who's experienced trauma like sits in like the darkness of their bathroom and like feeds that trauma and thinks about it and has the negative emotions, they kindle it and it grows. It's what happens in anxiety when we feed our mind. When you give in to those anxious thoughts, they breed more anxious thoughts. And then you think through those and they breed more anxious thoughts. And then you become overwhelmed and you have to check out. Your mind just blanks. It like short circuits. You have to find games, you have to find drugs, or you just have to pass out. Anything to pass out, anything to forget, anything to unplug. Same principle. The power of mantra is that it's just like a good thing. So eventually when you do mantra a lot, you get to this phase called Ajap-Jap. So Jap is doing mantra. And Ajap is the autopilot of mantra. When the mantra automatically repeats itself in your mind all the time, and you no longer have to consciously develop it. And then it's like, it kind of puts it on like, you know, farm. It's just auto farming. You're like botting the mantra, and then it like grows in positivity. What do you think about that? Sorry, that was like a kind of random tangent. No, I liked it. I go on tangents all the time. Believe me. I liked it. I appreciate the passion. No, I agree with that. I like that a lot. And for me, I actually, I, yeah, you're right. So I don't explain it. I usually keep the, you know, the deeper internal like meaning of what I feel to myself. Yep. But the embodied like feeling or what it does for me, that's what I share, right? So a lot of times I refer to it as an anchor. And I usually refer to it as, you know, put, you know, make your anchor something that life can't take away, right? So it can't expire or it can't, you know, someone could, someone can't disprove it, right? Nothing can ever take it away. And that's why like, if you put that as an anchor, that anchor will get you out of, you know, well, I don't want to still get anyone out, but we'll get most people out of, you know, the deepest of pickles. I use pickle in a more casual way to make it a little better, but deepest of issues. Yeah. I mean, what I'm hearing from you is that your experience has been that if you can find that right anchor, it has, you know, grounded you through lots of trials and tribulations. Yeah. Well, so I feel like, so a lot, so with my, with my drug usage, right? What I experienced and what I saw my, my, my, my peers in the drug world experience is they wanted to find a, a world, you know, a, a, a metaphysical world within the physical world that gave them or resulted in a better feeling or a better constant feeling than what they felt normal, natural, not high. Now, how I feel when I think of what my anchor is, it is the greatest feeling in the world. It is filled with hope. It is filled with adventure, magic. It is filled with storylines and just, you know, all these crazy, you know, trials and tribulations that, that, that test loyalties and friendships and actually give me some, right. And this feeling is better than any high in the world. So no matter how deep I am into an addiction, the craving for that grounds me and brings me back to reality and allows me to leave it. But if you're high is the highest peak for you. If that's, if that is the best feeling, then it's very hard to get out of that delusion to want to get out. And that's, and that's part of prediction at least for me, you have to want to stop. If you don't want to stop, it doesn't matter how many rehabs you go to, it doesn't matter how many things you're forced to do, you'll find a way back, right? Your next, your next low point, that's what you're resorting to, right? So that's kind of- Train how- Yeah, I mean, it's, it's a powerful, powerful principle. What I wonder is like, how does someone find that anchor? Right? Cause it sounds like a very special thing. I think, so my mom, so it's weird because, so my parents, they're, they like, they work perfectly, but they're total opposites. My dad is this very like objective mathematical man. Everything is on a time, on a time clock. Like comes from a military family, like everything, same time, every bedtime, same time. We're talking to the team, 9 PM flat, right? One minute over, like it's all hell breaks loose in his mind, right? Every, everything he shows up to, it's always early, never late, ever late, right? My mom, on the other hand, is total opposite. My mom isn't guided by the mathematics or the objectiveness of things. She's more of a free flowing spiritual feels as she goes, you know, energy, right? My dad finds all that bullshit. And my mom finds all the other side too serious. So they're both the, they're both the total opposites and they both are like huge impacts for me. So I gathered from both ends and what I, I guess that gave me, it gave me like a perfect insight on so many different things, right? It allowed me to dive deep into my spiritual side without, without it fueling any delusions of grandeur, right? A lot of times if you go into the spiritual side, these, these emotions take over and emotions start, you know, an overabundance of them lead to ego and they lead to you believing that you're here and you're different than everybody and you're special and God has put you here for a certain reason and all that's good as long as you can stay grounded. If you can't stay grounded, you begin to feel delusions and you begin to get misguided and carried away and you start using that as a justification for many terrible things that lead you away from yourself, right? On the other hand, if you're a completely just, you know, mathematical objective, et cetera, et cetera, you, I don't think you feel as much, right? That piece of your humanity is taken away by this concrete feeling of just emotionless, just numbers and scales and everything's predicted, and which makes it very boring. Now to get to my point, I was always told, right? So I've always been just, I've always wanted to explore, like you gathered for earlier, but I've always been told the greatest exploration is diving deeper inside inward. So I think the best way to find it is to want to dive deeper into yourself. It's like through self-discovery, you know, and part of that self-discovery, it gives you a lot more than an anchor. It gives you confidence. You know, people ask where confidence comes from. People ask where, you know, these, you know, how can I sit there and be called ugly by everybody and be called deformed or neanderthal and still looking at, you know, look at myself in OBS and see myself as the most beautiful man in the world, right? It comes from accepting yourself and realizing, you know, your power points. Now I know physically I'm not the best looking man, right? I'd give myself an eight and a half out of 10, which is very superficial and objectifying to put a scale on it, but eight and a half, right? But I know the embodiment, right? The presence, the voice, right? All these together, making the best looking man on Twitch. So these things come from self-discovery. Does that make any sense? As soon as you become content with who you are, right? And you, that's where all this comes from, right? So, Trane, I'm kind of with you in principle, but I've got kind of like, you know, how, here are the two questions. Real quick. Yeah. Before you ask those two questions, so I wore all these headphones. Can I run to the restroom real quick? Yep. I'm going to grab water. Perfect. Give me those two, or you grab, yeah. Yeah, okay. Whatever you want. Yeah, I'm going to grab water, go throw it in the restroom. All right. Okay, great. Okay. Yeah, I got a juice up. It's all that coffee. Band for unattended webcams. Ah, interesting, huh, chat? I drink a glass of water. Water in a can, yeah. Sometimes when I eat things that are like a little bit fatty and delicious, I need some carbonation to help me burp. It is sparkling water from Whole Foods. We should have gotten a sponsorship for that too. How's the meal sitting? It's good. Trane is a lively guy, so it makes it fun to talk to. All right, go ahead. Yeah, so here are my questions, Trane. So the first, in a general sense, is like you say you have to like look in, right? You have to look in yourself. Yeah. So how do you do that? And kind of tacked onto that is for a lot of people, anytime they look inside, all they see is shit. So what do you do about that? So for me, I actually enjoy loneliness. So for my bipolar stuff, the depressive side, I actually enjoy a lot. I enjoy being alone. Of course, the feelings, I have to battle myself, but I spend a lot of time by myself. When I go to dinner, I book for one. People look at me like I'm weird, but I enjoy it. And I just feel like when I'm with someone, it's always meaningless conversations. And when I say meaningless, I don't mean to like deteriorate other people's feelings or what they want to talk about, but it's usually these just, I don't know, it's just, hey, what's up? How are you doing? Not much you. And then it ends there. And we talk about like a dog or Fortnite. It's just lack of depth. So I just eat by myself. I enjoy my food. It's just, you know, foods are so beautiful. It's such an amazing, amazing thing, especially if you know, you go to a restaurant where the chef, you know, loves the hell is this thing? This is a fruit fly. The hell anyways, what you doing, boy? Okay. Anyways. Yeah. So it's, I appreciate my loneliness. And in that loneliness, I found a friend, which is myself. And that friend has been the best friend I've ever had. Right? It's the me, all of us have that inner voice, right? That inner voice is whether it's our subconscious, whether it's, you know, the back of our minds that we usually ignore, because it's telling us what we need to do, you know, the things that we push back and, you know, blah, blah, blah. Anyways. So what was the second question? Yeah. So let's say I go to dinner with myself, but the thing is like on the inside, I feel like I'm an asshole. I'm worthless. I haven't accomplished anything. Yeah. So, because it sounds like you're a pleasant person to sit with, but a lot of people in our community don't like who they are on the inside. It's their failures and lonely. It's because, okay, the shit everyone has their shit, right? I have my shit, you have your shit, everyone has their shit. The problem is in today's world, what we try and do what we're taught to do, whether it's through whatever social structure that is put in front of us, whether it's companies, whether it's the American dream, whatever the fuck it is, right? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's like, we're taught to try and one up everybody. So from early on, if someone gets new Jordans, we either need to get those Jordans or we need to get something better, right? We're constantly in this catch up game. And the catch up game puts us in a position where there's a constant front being set. That front neglects and ignores the entire journey that usually gets us to the place that we're fronting, that we're acting like we're at. So we look at every Instagram, every Facebook, every stream, right? All you see is the highlights, the person at his strongest. Now, what this does is in the public sphere, right? The way chat works, the way comments work, the way everything works. Everyone is either shit talking it or saying what they have. But in reality, deep down when they're alone, they feel like shit because they see everyone doing well and themselves doing shitty. The problem is they're setting standards of where they should be based on where others are telling them they're at. But if we were actually all truthful with each other, we'd realize that all of us are actually a lot more alike and all in the same shit together. I think a lot of the times the shit everyone deals with, they think they're dealing with it alone and their life is terrible and shitty. But in reality, it's a lot more normalized and average than they think. I think all of us, even you yourself, even me myself, people might look at me and say, oh, he's rich, he makes this much money, he should be happy, right? But that's just what's seen, right? That's what's, does that make any sense? Or relationship. You see a couple kissing, you see a couple traveling from destination to destination and we assume, wow, what a nice relationship. I don't have that. These guys, they must be happy. But we don't see the in-betweens. And this is everywhere in life. TV series, movies. We see the highlights of everything and the highlights are always the best and we compare ourselves to them. And it is the most unrealistic comparison ever, right? Because if we actually saw the truth behind these relationships, we'd actually realize that where we're at individually is exactly where they're at. Or we might even be better. But the problem is today's world, we only see the best of everything. Therefore we never feel adequate to everything. So until you can come to some sort of realization that until we can normalize everyone coming out and saying, yo, you know, like I am, you know, this is not the case, you know, or I don't know what I'd call it. Does that make any sense? This is the first step we need to cross. Here's what I'd, I'd, how I'd summarize. I'd say that one of the big problems is that we compare our insides to other people's outsides. Yeah. Right. So like, when you see someone, like, let's say it's the end of your semester and everyone's doing your class, like end of semester presentation with your class. Yeah. And you go up there and you give your presentation and you feel every ounce of anxiety racking your body, but you've trained, you've practiced and you end up giving a pretty decent presentation. But your experience of it was dominated by your perception of visit the pimple. Yes. Right. You saw the pimple and like, that's what you see. And then you see other people go, go on, on stage and they give their presentation. They're every bit as anxious as you, but you don't see any of it. You don't see it. And they don't tell you why, because we've been, we've been trained in its way where we don't want people to know how shitty it is. We want them to know that we're living the life and this was easy for us. And then what this does is it perpetuates this unrealistic idea of what life should be. If you're successful, happy and smart. But in reality, if we told them the truth, that holy shit, this a that I got, wasn't that easy. I sat there by personal, my parents made me do it. I didn't want to do it at all. Second of all, when I sat there for eight hours, I didn't want to do it at all. That shit was boring. So I didn't understand it one bit. I had to hire six different tutors just to understand the first equation. No one's going to admit those parts. So you assume that this guy must be intelligent and he has it easy. But in reality, he hated every minute of it. And this is what I've noticed even in school. When I saw the kids come in here and take the test and get A's, right? I'm like, damn, this guy, you know, wow, I just, it's, I hated that shit. Then I, you know, him and I would become friends. I'd go for a study session. This dude, you know, he's, he's got hooked on phonics. He's got fucking the Stanford ACT study guide. He's got six different tutors on Skype, Zoom, and FaceTime, right? It's not what you think based on what they're showing. And that's the problem. We're basing what we should be off of what other people are saying they are. But in reality, what everybody is, is exactly where every, does that make any sense? Yeah, man, I think it does. I think it's, you know, I think it gets to this idea. You're kind of saying there's something you keep on mentioning society here and there. And I think what I'd say kind of just to echo that is that like, I think that's where the idea of smart and talented. So I think the problem is that as a society, we honor and value intelligence and talent, which I think is a huge problem. So we don't value hard work and effort. And so what happens when someone does a good job is we call them smart. And then what happens is they're smart. It's like a stat on your character sheet. It's not changeable. I've got a 14 on it and they have an 18 on it. So they're just going to be a better mage than I am. There's like nothing I can do about it. But the truth is they've got a 14 on it too. It's just, they have buffs, which are like, you know, other things like tutors or whatever, or being Iranian and the son of like engineers, or in my case, being Indian and the son of doctors. And, you know, I just sold out faster than you did. So went to med school. Well, I was going to be in law school, but I dropped X this ended up working out. But yeah, yeah. Good for you, man. So we both, we both sold out. Yeah, we both sold out. Just we're both good. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. But I think it's kind of interesting, right? So then like what I'm curious about is, so how do you, I guess maybe I should ask you, how did you stop comparing yourself to other people? How did you? I didn't. I still do. I think, see, so this is the answer that I think proves what I'm trying to say. If I were to sit here and say, oh, I've found a point where I stopped comparing myself, right? Because I'm trying to like somehow give off this aura that I've figured it out. You haven't figured it out. Yeah, right. It's like, no, I haven't figured it out. I still compare myself. I still look at shitty comments. I still look at other people. I'm saying, damn, he's doing well. I should be at that point. I'm dead compared to them, right? Like, but it's just my experience that's taught me to step back instead of making that, that thought comes to my mind. Still, I still feel the negative effects of it. But the difference is, that's not where it ends. The thought will be there no matter what, no matter what solution I find the problem, the thought will always be there. Cause unfortunately that's just the way it's the way it is. And see, that's the problem. That's the problem with, I think today it's like the lack of education on. There is no cure to these things. There is just understanding them and finding out how to manage them. Right? So that I will never hit a point where I just completely stop doing this. This is always going to be in my mind. It's always going to be there. Now, how I take it and how I battle it and whether I've decided that's the conclusion of, you know, that's the difference in it. So these days, when it comes to me, you know, my initial and the initial and the middle part of that thought it goes, but at the end I'm like, yo, you know what, you know, it looks good. It looks like he's doing good, but I've been there, you know, at the end of the day, you know, he has his battles, right? So like I just, I bring it back down to reality, right? Everyone does that make any sense? Yeah. I mean, I think what I'm hearing from you is well said, especially when it comes to mental illness, which is sort of, I don't entirely believe what I'm about to say, but there's no cure. There's only management. Yeah. For some of them. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that, and even that I don't necessarily believe that there isn't a cure for some, I tend to hold on to hope, but, you know, I think it speaks to kind of this idea that we have, and you said it really well that like from the outside, right? So we look at you and we hear you saying these things and there's this assumption that you've conquered something and that you it's done for you now, but actually we're falling into the same trap then and there because you haven't conquered anything and that you still struggle with it. And like, that's the whole point is that we look at other people and we say, Oh, this person is disciplined. He's conquered his laziness. It's over for him. He's got, he's set for life. I'm not like him because I haven't conquered my discipline. I mean, my laziness. And I think part of the problem that keeps us stuck is that we look for a solution based on what we see, even though that solution does not actually exist. This is why our community is stuck is because they think, Oh, I need discipline because that's what this person has, but they're looking for something that doesn't exist. Exactly. And so they look and they look and they don't find it and they don't find it and they don't find it. And it reinforces this idea that like laziness, like I'm way too lazy and I'm never going to find discipline and I'm going to be a failure in life because I'm not like them. And I still maintain that like laziness is basically a generally human characteristic. I'm very lazy. And I think people don't realize that you just have to learn how to deal with it. I don't think you should stop being lazy. I think you should just be better at being lazy. You should just be more efficient. No, you're right. And to further go into, I just thought of something, right? I think one of the biggest things that's helped me in my life, right, is this. So I think the question is, how do you figure out that the other person, you know, how do you not compare yourself and how do you realize that he's no different than you? He's just working a little harder or, you know, managing. I think there's a certain age, right? I like to put it between like 16 and 24 for my experiences and viewing of others, blah, blah, right? There's like an age, I'd say 16 and 24, maybe 25, where we go through these delusions of grandeur, right? It's this age where you truly believe you have a special skill. You can read people, you know, exactly, you know, things that, you know, I've guessed these guys' professions, what they do, but you know, all these different things that just totally reinforce this idea that, you know, these delusions of grandeur you have that you're special, talented, more intelligent, right? Sometimes these things make you lazy because, you know, anyways, the point is, now, if you have a proper like, whether it's parents or a mentor that can tell you, listen, you're not different, you're not special, you're just like everybody else, right? Don't get carried away. Like that keeps you grounded. We need somehow to get to a point where we all realize that we're all the same, right? Like, when I say all the same, obviously, we're all different in our own respects. But at the end of the day, I do believe there's a certain human psychology behind all of us, right? And that's why things like this work, psychology, psychiatry, things, right? Things in this field, which I guess, you know, I won't go that route. But the point is, what I'm trying to say is, okay, the moment, okay, let me think about this. The best example I can give is, right, so at a young age, our parents usually project their mistakes onto us, right? And tell us, you know, based on their experiences of their trial and errors, what we need to do, what the right path is. And a lot of times we, most of us, I say 90% plus, resort in some sort of, you don't know me, these guys are different, you don't know my life, I know better, I know this, I know that. And most of us that I think can admit it, realize that 90% of the time, our parents were right. Now, if you can think about how that could be possible, how is it possible that parents that are from a different generation, different time, much older than you, have never spent a second in your shoes or your situation, how could they have the right answer to a situation that you swore, that you felt every bone in your body told you that they were wrong and they happened to be right? How is that possible? You begin to realize, holy shit, maybe I'm not so different. Maybe I don't, you know, maybe things, maybe there is some sort of, you know, middle ground that we all go through. And the real trick to life is, you know, putting that ego aside and being able to learn from the mistakes of others, rather than having to make the mistakes of our own, right? And then learn from those and then being the same boat as everybody else, right? So if you can like go deep into thinking, how is it possible that older people can perfectly predict situations based on their own mistakes of the same exact situations they went through? And how could these situations from different times have the same exact conclusions? Right? You begin to think, holy shit, right? There must be some sort of system to these things. There must be some sort of rules, rules to the game, right? And I think that is one of the biggest things, understanding that you, that sure, you have your special, you have your things that make you unique to yourself, right? Your personality, right? The way the experiences in your life have shaped you, maybe that's different. But as far as the rules to the game, if you can come to a place where you realize that you're not so different and you begin to realize that everyone else is in the same exact place you're in, that's when you get to a more realistic place where you begin to realize that this life that you're assuming that this person has based on this picture or the grade he got isn't what it actually is. He is going through exactly what you're going through. The only difference is maybe he's come to a conclusion that maybe would take you four more years to realize it comes down to maturity, in my opinion, right? Some of us understand what I'm saying at 30. Some understand at 40. Some understand after they fail 10 tests, some can look at it and understand before the 10 tests and end up passing the 10 tests. And this comes down to understanding what you want versus what you need to do, right? When you're young, everything's at what you want. I hear a lot of stories of I'm in college right now. I don't want to do this. I want to become a doctor, but I took this class and it was boring as hell. I don't want to be a doctor anymore. What they realize is that that's in everything. Even if you find what you want to do. Trent, do you mind if I jump in for a second? Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Just because I think you're moving into this. I'm stuck in Iran, yeah. No, I mean, I think there's a lot that you said that was really good that I just want to try to capture because I think it is so important. And I think you did a good job of actually explaining it. It's just I don't want it to get lost with the next thing. And it kind of comes back to this idea of like rules of the game. So I think what I'm hearing when you say things like delusions of grandeur is I think some people feel like they're playing by a different set of rules. And what I'm hearing you say is that there's a realization that comes when you used your parents example, for example, there's a realization that actually the rules are all the same. You look at the person who's smart and talented, who's disciplined, and it's like, he's not playing a game that I'm playing. It's easy for him. His rules are he's playing on easy mode and I'm playing on hard mode. Because when he like rolled his character, he got the discipline trait, and I got the lazy trait. And it's a completely different game. And what I'm hearing you say is that like, especially in the age in this range between 16 and 24, and maybe what we call maturity is when we assume that the rules of the game are different for us, that my parents don't understand because they were playing a different game, they can't understand, because I'm individual and I'm unique and my rule set is different from theirs. And what I'm hearing from you is that like at some point there is a realization, holy shit, how can my parents be right unless the rules are the same? Right? And that realization that like actually the person who means it all together is actually playing on hard mode too. Because if we assume that the other person's strategy is with a different rule set, no wonder we can't duplicate it. If you play the game on easy mode and you come up with a particular strategy that works, that same strategy won't work on hard mode. And what we end up doing is we attribute their success to like a different rule set. And when we try to duplicate it, it doesn't work. And instead what we need to do is like assume for a moment that we're all playing the same game, that they struggle every day too. And once we factor that in and assume they're not smart, talented or disciplined, and assume that they struggle every day, then we'll find a road to success. Yes. That's right. And here's the crazy part. This sounds like one of those, this sounds like one of those dumb realizations you make when you're high or something, when you're when you smoke your first blunt, whenever you smoke it, right? This sounds like one of those, but it's not. The true different you know, the true different is realizing you're not different, right? That's my honest opinion. We see this everywhere, but we don't actually process it. How many and I know movies and TV series, I went into a thing how they're not realistic, but I think this singular message that's hidden within all of it. I think this is the one realistic part. The grass is always greener on the other side. When we view that smart person that we view as smart, but maybe just puts a lot of work and doesn't actually get it and doesn't come as easily to them as we assume it does, right? You better bet your ass. He's looking at the not so smart person that might be good with people and to him every day he feels the same pain that that person feels about him being smart, right? We're all in the same field. All of us like it's not this great, amazing thing. I mean, and here's what I mean by the messages in these movies, right? How many times have we seen the movie where the superhero that has everything super strength, the girl, super speed, all he wants to be is normal. And then all the normal person wants to be is him, right? What do we gather from this? We gather that we've somehow been trained to always want what we're not. And the problem with that is it makes us skip the most important part of our lives, which is accepting what we are, appreciating what we are, and starting our path to self discovery, which leads to true contentment and confidence, right? The problem is we're trained to never appreciate those things. So we can never even start to begin to self discover because we're always trying to be someone that right. Does that make any sense? You feel me on that? Yeah, I feel you. I think you stopped at the worst part though, because you're about to tie it together. Yeah. So I can give it a shot. Yeah. Yeah. Give it a shot. Yeah. So I'm gonna grab a water while you while it's headphones. I can hear you. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Grab your water. I'm just going to compose my thoughts for a second because it's distracting while you're walking around to try to talk at your empty chair. So I'll just collect my thoughts. You know, Chad, it sounded like he just stopped. He was like, just like there, right? It was like, just about to nut. And he's like, am I making sense? And it's like, damn it, man. Okay. My St. Pellegrino right here. All right, go ahead. Sparkling or still? Sparkling. Hell yeah, baby. Yeah, stuff. So, Trayne, here's kind of what I heard you say. So like, you know, so it kind of comes down to sort of recognizing that, you know, the, as you said, the real differences in recognizing that things aren't different. And I heard you say a lot about sort of like the first step forward is to kind of accept where you are, which I mean, I totally agree with all this stuff. So I think, you know, I think there's a really funny contradiction. It's not really a contradiction, but what seems like maybe a contradiction to what you said earlier about, you know, wanting in that flame is what keeps you forward and is what's enjoyable. Because now, and I don't think is there actually a contradiction. So I'll resolve this in a second, but you know, what I'm hearing you say is that like, it's our striving to be something that we are not that causes problems. It's our sort of assumption that, oh, there is this thing, like there's a smart, disciplined, talented person, and then there's me. And we long to be that person. And we don't recognize, so the first piece of this is that we don't recognize that that person is actually the same as we are, and that they struggle too, and they may not be smart or disciplined or talented, or maybe they are, but that fundamentally like we're all like, what binds us together as human beings is still shared, even though we are individual people. We all have struggles. There's also sort of this idea that the grass is always greener on the other side. And what people find is that they chase the next thing that will make their life easy. They look to conquer so that they don't have to work anymore. It's like once I develop confidence, then everything will be easy. The problem right now is that I lack confidence. How do I develop confidence? And I think, okay, one day I'll have confidence, and then I'll be like trained, and then I'll understand everything, and then everything will be easy. And so we're always chasing the next thing. We're always looking to level up. And bizarrely, I think what I heard from you is subtle, because you say that it's like the wanting that is your anchor. So early on, you said the wanting is your anchor. And so then the argumentative part of me says, but how is that a problem? Because what you're saying is that everyone else is striving to be something else. So isn't that their anchor? Isn't wanting to go to the other side where the grass is greener? Isn't that your anchor? Isn't that what you were saying? But I think there's a very, very subtle difference between what you said in the first half of the conversation and what you're saying now. And here's how I would describe it. I think the difference between the first half and the second half is you said something very tiny, which was that the acceptance that you may never get it. The appreciation that I may never actually end up on the other side where the grass is greener, but I'm going to try to get there. It's the acceptance that you're going to move in that direction is as opposed to focusing on the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. One is very focused on the outcome of becoming this thing that you're not. And it's almost like looking into the future and looking at the end game, looking at the last five minutes of the movie. And the other is starting where you are and pointing yourself in a direction of where you go. But one is about being where you are in trying to move forward from there. That's healthy because you say, I'm going to try to move forward. It's very different but subtle, which is the exact opposite of looking at somewhere and saying, I want to go to there. One is about looking at the end point and one is looking at the starting point. And as long as you're looking at the starting point, I think you'll move in the right direction. And generally speaking, you'll be happy because when you're at the starting point, you make no expectations or guarantees and therefore no disappointment about not ending up where you want to go. That's right. And it's primarily because that one that you're talking about, that's an idea. That's why. The one that is fueling the immortal flame that will never go out, knock on wood, it's supported by an idea. Whereas most of our flames without proper self discovery are supported by some sort of cheap replacement of an idea, some sort of something physical that you can see and grab. And that's always the most, that's the trick in life, right? Like if you can find an idea that best reflects who you want to be, who you are, no matter how achievable it is, no matter how realistic it is, it's an idea of what you think you need to be in a world that you think best reflects and best suits who you, the potential of who you need to be and can be, right? One's an idea and one is a cheap pleasure. The problem is we've been trained to see these cheap pleasures as some sort of measure of success and measure of intelligence and measure of how happy we are. And those cheap pleasures are usually the end goal. The problem is when you set that as an end goal, the flame ends, the flame goes out as soon as you get it. And once you lose the flame, once when you get there, you don't know how to reignite that flame again. But if you make your end goal an idea, something immortal that can never be stripped and never fully achieved because it's continuously growing on itself, right? That is the true level of an anchor. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes sense. Yeah, sorry. I would also add, I think that begs a question, which I hear, which I'm going to go ahead and answer, which is like, how do you tell what's an idea and what's a cheap pleasure? How can you differentiate the two? I understand that they're different, but I think the reason that they're different, like you said, is that once again, one is about a particular goal. The idea is about a direction. It's not about a destination. And what you're saying is I think you set a particular ideal that is so far in the future that it's never achievable. But I think the key thing there is that when it's never achievable, you don't think about the end or you may think about the end, but you're really focused on taking the next step forward. You're focused on the next step as opposed to the last step. And I think what you define as a cheap pleasure is when people are focused on the last step. And the thing about an achievable goal is you can't, an unachievable goal, is what I think you describe as an idea, is that by nature of it being an idea, it's never achievable. And therefore you protect yourself from thinking about the last step. And you always think about how can I move forward towards this? It's not that it's not achievable. It's that each step that you achieve, it grows on itself and you have to keep going. It's an infinite journey. It's an infinite adventure. Right? So look at World of Warcraft, for example, right? World of Warcraft, there's a quest line. There's a story that for those of you that like this storylines and games we love as soon as we hit the max level and it's over, eventually after two, three months, we get bored of the game and we quit playing. Right? Now imagine a quest line that forever continues with new content, new lines. You've never seen new people, right? It's an infinite, it's a journey that has no limit, a journey that has no ending. Right? So it's not that it's not possible to achieve. It is, but it's continuously growing outward. Kind of like space. You know how space is continuous just moving outward? That's like the idea you want to get to, right? A world that embodies who you are deep, deep down. It reflects your deepest desires and emotions and happinesses. And that's another thing. I think the problem today is we're sold this idea of an American dream. Right? And the problem is that idea that's sold is, oh, sorry, I'm going to a different tangent. Let's finish this and then we'll go into that. Go ahead. No, I mean, I think we're still sort of saying the same thing. And I think- Yeah, we are. I think you really clarified. It's not so much about being unachievable as like continual achievement, but I still hear you kind of talking about, we're still saying the same thing because you're saying you take one step forward and you add one step to the end of the road. And you take one step forward and then you add one step to the end of the road. And so I still think the crux of it, I think we agree that like, and I really want people to understand this, that a lot of people think about the last step as opposed to the next step. And that's why they get stuck. Because the last step can be so hard to achieve and can feel so far away. Like you look at this person who's successful and intelligent and disciplined, and you look at yourself and there's such a gap between here and there, you have no idea how to get started. Because you're focused on that end. And what you really should focus on is the next step. And so I sometimes ask people that I work with, like, what's the most important step that you can take? And some people say the first step and I say, incorrect. And then they say the last step and then I say, incorrect. And the answer is the next step. Oftentimes, bizarrely for our community train, they're good at taking the first step. They're good at waking up one day and saying today, I'm going to change and they will change for that day. Yep, no more video games. And they'll stop for a day. It's day two. That's the problem. They're actually really good at doing it once. It's doing it again. That's tricky. Well, and if you look into why that is, I think that's the biggest problem with today's society, right? It's the lack of understanding. And I don't know if it's in I don't know if it's whether it's something that's instilled with you in a young age, whether it's the parents, the guidance system, I don't know what it is. But it's the same thing I see with the gym, right? Or with anyone else with anything else they need to do, right? It's the first day is easy. The first week might be easy. The first two weeks might be easy, right? That's not that's not the hard part. When you want to do something, you can get it done. The hard part is doing it when you don't want to do it and understanding why you need to do it, regardless if that want is there. It's that maturity that is what actually that's what sets you apart. If you want to be set apart from your peers or from your age group, it's understanding at an early age that most of what most of what will get you somewhere, most of what will get you or advance you with self discovery or whatever you want to do in life, wherever you want to be is understanding that most of what you need to do to get there, most of the stepping stones that are required to step onto in order to get to the you know, wherever you need to be is understanding that you need to do what you need to do. The wanting part won't be there and until that's realized, I think that's the main problem. Everyone as soon as they lose the want, they start thinking, oh this must not be what is right for me because if I don't want to do it, then how could it be what I love? That's the most unrealistic standard to set. You will find nothing in life. You'll find yourself changing majors 17 times just to find out you're going to change it an 18th, right? It's understanding at an early age that it's about what you need to do, not what you want to do until you can realize that. So, Trane, I think that sort of begs the question, how does one realize that? That's the question I'm gonna ask. I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's, I don't know. So, oddly enough, I think I may have an answer. So, I think Trane is, you know, you hit upon a really important principle which is that a lot of times our behaviors are dictated by our desires, but that's how you lose control of life, right? We were talking about addiction earlier. It's when what you want and the craving dictates what you do. I want to play League of Legends, I don't want to study, therefore I'm going to play League of Legends and I'm not going to study. So, we live lives that are dictated by our desires and our wants instead of being dictated by our needs. So, the question is like how the fuck do you switch from one to the other? And the answer is actually relatively simple. So, I've got a really simple exercise for you. The next time you have an option to eat something between that what you want and that what you want less. And I'm not saying like go on a drastic diet. I'm saying like let's say you go to like a sandwich shop and you really, really love their like turkey sub. Get something else. Whatever your first choice is when you have no pressure or no need to do anything. When you have full choice, you're not trying to go on a diet because a diet is restricting yourself. There's an end goal. You're sacrificing your desire for a greater desire to be in shape. Can't be a diet. In the simplest way when you have a choice between when you have complete and free choice between something that you want and something that you don't want, pick the thing that you don't want. So, one good example is if you keep drinks in the fridge, take them out of the fridge, drink them warm. No more drinks in the fridge. There's no reason to do that. There's no health benefit. There's no greater purpose. That's when you need to act. With water there is, I think. Okay, sure. My point is like pick the thing that there's no reason to do and when you have a desire to do it one way and there's no reason to not do it that way, do it a different way. Because that is when you get the purest example of going against your desire. I think that's a good challenge and here is why. And this once again, this sounds like one of those high talks. Not what you're saying, what I'm about to say. It sounds like one of those high talks. But that in itself, so here's like the paradoxical situation we're in. What you're asking them to do, that interesting maybe question they have in their minds, oh, what's it going to be like? Oh, I'm going to try this. That is their want. Now they want to try it and they might do it. But as soon as they try it and have the warm drink over the cold drink and they try to go, oh, wow, that was great. It's about the next step. Will they continue it? Because right now they're going to be motivated by you to do it. That motivation by you is going to now make that a want, not a need. So they're going to be in the same situation again after they make the first decision that's motivated by your advice. And the question is, will they do it again and follow? That's the real question, right? Does that make sense? Yeah. So what you're saying is that I am creating, so what I tried to say is do something for no, so here's the basic problem is that we always do things for a reason. And what we need to do is do things for no reason. Do the idiotic thing. Do the thing that there's no reason to do. And our desire is a damn good reason. And sometimes we struggle and we try to conquer desire and we try to study. I want to play games, but I need to study. So you wrestle with your desire and you conquer it and you study in that moment and the next day you wake up and it's the same damn thing. Even though you conquer your desire time and time and time again, you still feel like you're at level one. And that's because you're not conquering your desire. You're overcoming it in the moment through conflict, but you're not actually leveling up. Leveling up is to go to the grocery store, take the bag of chips that you would normally buy because it's your favorite flavor, and put it back on the shelf and then pick a different flavor. And then to buy a different kind of bread and a different kind of juice for the rest of your life. And for the rest of your life, always pick the option that is not the one that you want. And then it'll be for the rest of your life. And then you'll understand how to act without being controlled by yourself. It's not being controlled by your desires. It's being having an intention and saying, I'm going to pick this thing, even though there is no reason to do it. And when you can do something for no reason, then life becomes so easy. It's in your control. Because what holds us back is reasons. I think what helped me the most to do what's needed versus what you want is something my dad drilled in me every day for like 10 years. And it would always go this way. And I give this in my advice streams because I get a lot of the same questions about people in university and college, stuff like that. Right? They say, you know, I hit that class. And I just don't want to be there. I don't want to do this. I don't want to study. I hate it. And I try to normalize this idea that, listen, everyone around you hates it. That there will always be a class for someone that they hate, no matter what major they take, no matter what they think they love. And here's what he would tell me. Say, Tyler, listen, there's going to be have to there's going to have to be a time where you come to realize that it's about what you need to do, not what you want. And an example of this is right now you're in college. If you want to follow what you want to do, and only that then you can do that you can have four years of wanting and fun and greatness and going with your emotions and irrational impulses. But guess what? Eventually reality is going to settle in and this world, no matter how unfair it is. There's one thing we have to understand it's ran by money, money makes the world go round. No matter how unfair you think it is, no matter how much you think it needs to change. Sure. But in order to put any change into it into the actual system, not the idea of the system, is to get to the top and use that position to change things. Right. Now that part I put into it right there. What he put into it was this. You have four years of fun, the next 50 years of your life. And here's the part that is so crazy to me, that none of us ever understand until it's too late. If we keep battling this, but I don't want this, I don't love this. I don't understand why I need to do this. Guess what? If you don't do it, the next 50 years of your life, you're working a nine to five job for some asshole that's half as smart as you in a small cubicle. And you have to do it. You have no choice. This time you're in a position where you have no doors open. You're going to be forced to do it. So if you can take that idea that the next 50 years of your life, you're going to be forced to do something you do not want to do, all because of a sacrifice you couldn't make of giving four years of your life of doing what you need to do. The next 50 years is going to be exactly that. But you have no doors open this time, no ways out. Or four years of realizing that I need to do this, not want, I need to put my head down. I need to get good grades. I need to study. I need to get to a good job, be my own boss. Then the next 50 years of your life, you'll have the choice to do what you want. Right. And when you want to do it. And that's kind of what was in my head. So I sat there and I sacrificed the time and I put my head down and that's kind of where it led me to. Right. And that's what people don't realize. I mean, they're sitting here arguing whether they want, whether they need to do this homework. But it's like right now you have 700,000 doors open to what you can do in your life. And if you don't mature and realize that if you don't realize this is the time to do what you need the next 50 years of your life, you have to do that anyways. Right. You have to do what you need in the next 50 years. And this time you have no choice. And I think that is what opened my eyes the most. Obviously after 10 years of hammering my head, because I didn't listen, you know, the first nine years. But does that make any sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. I think it's powerful stuff. And I also wonder a little bit because I remember sort of in a weird way, trains thinking the same thing. And that's actually in a weird way, what made it so hard is I knew every day when I woke up and I played Diablo two and logged on, I knew that I just needed to work hard for four years. And then I would be set. And I knew that it was like such a easy trade to make right. Four years of working hard to get into medical school and then the current will carry you the rest of the way. I was going to be a doctor. I was going to have money. Women would be falling in love with me because I'm a doctor and that's what society had taught me that they do. Yeah. Right. Yeah. No, you're right. And that's also why I hated myself and thought that I was such a piece of shit because it's a no brainer to sacrifice four years for 50. And if I can't even do that, how stupid am I? It's bizarre because I'm with you 100%. I would wake up every day and I knew that like, I just got to do this one thing. I just got to do this. And it's such a good trade to me. And I know I need to make it. So my parents told me the same thing too. And bizarrely, it's because I understood that that it became like so much harder and I beat myself up so much because it's one thing to like make a bad choice when it's like a difficult choice. It's completely you just think that you're so much more of a piece of shit. When the choice is a no brainer, you can't bring yourself to do it anyway. And that's tough. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you. I agree. I think it's tough though. I agree. It is tough. And the trick is once you start, it becomes easy. When it becomes easy, it follows you on and it starts affecting more than four years. And that's the trick, right? Yeah. I think people are focusing on the four year thing. They're like, oh, that's the point. The point is, right, when you understand it and you begin to put it into practice, it becomes a natural thing. And that's when you start succeeding. And I think that kind of goes to what you were saying. And I think that kind of goes to what you were saying about taking one step forward and having your goal move one step higher. It's a constant process of growth and change. Yeah. And it's never easy. It's a day by day battle. There's no understanding it. Just to make it clear to everyone. Day by day battle. You're going to wake up, hey, I can want to go to school. I can want to do anything. I can do it. We keep on saying that, but to be honest, can I just ask you straight up? I sometimes feel like my life is pretty easy. Do you feel like your life is like, I mean, I still struggle on a day to day basis, but I do feel like things are easier for me now than because I do think I learned some shit at some point. And it did actually make life like pretty easy and enjoyable. Yeah. I think when you step back from it all and you remove each individual experience and you kind of step back and you look at it objectively. Yeah. I think, you know, I think, you know, we're sold this idea that, you know, we have freedom, but I think ultimate freedom is when you're financially stable and financially secure. So I think in that sense, yeah, like objectively speaking, I think it's easier in that sense. Right. But I don't think, and I know this is going to be, not many people will accept this because they use the thing. Oh, well, it's easy to say when you have money, but money doesn't solve like those deep pains and darknesses you have within you. There's no amount of money. Money is a mask for those. You can get money. You can feel that you can buy a Lamborghini. You can go party. You can be financially set and be feel good. But there's a reason why every single person, when they get rich, you know, that they start preaching, you know, and they start going, you know, so yeah, objectively speaking, yes. Is it easier? Would I rather be here than there? Yes. 100%. Right. I'm not going to high road you there. Yes. But the deeper issues that aren't solved by becoming successful or being rich, those are battles you have to battle every day. Right. And I think thinking that money solves them is the unrealistic standard that we're talking about. Right. So interestingly enough, when I say that, I think my life is easier. I'm not talking about money or success. I really mean like, I do feel like at some point, like finding your anchor, for example, is more of what I'm talking. I think there is some way to level up and just be better at it and have life be a little bit easier to deal with. You know, I still sometimes like beat myself up and feel ashamed of myself, but I do feel like it's like night and day compared to what I used to do to myself. Yeah. And I do think that you can learn and I just sort of noticed that the way that we're talking about it and making it sound like this endless road. I mean, and sure it is a, in a sense of endless road, but it's also like, you do get better at it and life does get easy. Oh, and you do feel better about yourself. And so I just kind of noticed this cast of the conversation. That's like the tone of the conversation became super and it's like, yeah. Yeah. No, yeah. Yeah. It's so I don't know what the hell this, I don't want to, I bought a mango and I think this fruit fly came from that mango. I'm a little pissed off. Anyways, yeah, no, you're completely right. Like I guess we didn't clarify it, right? So that flame that you have, that anchor, that immortal, that immortal thing to strive to, right? If you're basing everything you do off of that, right? In order to get to that, it's giving a little piece of yourself to the world every day, right? It's doing those little small kind acts no one knows about, but it's bettering the world because it starts to ripple effect this butterfly like that. Now this individual that receives that kind little gesture you did is going to give that another gesture to someone else. And it's just going to keep going around. And that's the way to get to the end goal of my anchor at least, right? Yeah. Does that make any sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense, man. Listen, we've been at it for a little while. I've been asking you a lot of questions. No, I actually kind of got to wrap up in a little bit. Yeah. Any questions that you want to ask me or anything that we kind of didn't get to that you want to cover? I mean, I also feel like we're sort of at a good, I think we've like covered something and it feels like it's kind of got the end of a chapter right now. And so I just don't know if I have time to launch into another. I'd love to. I'd still love to ask you lots of questions kind of actually a little bit about your upbringing and if you feel comfortable experiencing some of your struggles with drugs and stuff like that. I want to talk about that definitely. I think we need to do another, like the reason I wanted to do this, like I think people were expecting, I've talked about Maestrom a little bit, but I think people were expecting this like thing where I'm going to come on and, you know, and teach their own. I don't want to shame it anyway. I'm not going to say what I'm going to say next because I realize it might be sound like it's shaming it. But like for me, I like to, you know, come on, come in, do a little, you know, warm up to each other a little bit, talk a little bit. I don't want to dive right into it because like if I drop a bunch of deep emotional shit onto you, right, you know, as much as you try to back away objectively and, you know, address it and help out, I feel like there's an overload, right? There isn't this authentic connection. So I think this was the open, you know, we opened the book, smelt the first new pages, you know, maybe read the first line of the, you know, chapter one, you know, and then our next combo is the deep shit that I think you've gotten with everybody in the first session with me. I think it's more of a book, you know, it's a journey itself, right? Because that's how it's been for me with other people. I've talked to you, right? Well, I don't know if this is going to sound pseudo sexual, but I like the scent of your book, Trey. Oh, I like this. Hey, I like the way your fingers caress my book and open it the first chapter. And believe me, the paper in my book isn't going to give you a paper cut. So you're good. You're good to go. Trust me. I'm telling you, I hate that paper cut. I actually I love your analogy, man. Like I love the analogy of like, you know, the like opening up a new book for the first time, because it does have it does have a smell. Sort of like it does. Beautiful. Yeah. It's no adventure. I also like the smell of old library books, but that's kind of must. No, no, it yeah. Yes. It depends. If in a collegiate area, you know, it's yeah, go ahead. I'm hearing that it doesn't sound like any kind of questions on your end or it sounds like you kind of got what you were hoping for out of the conversation in terms of like, I haven't I haven't left you hanging in some way. No, for me, all I want all I enjoy is I mean, at first I had my, you know, doubts. And after having on the podcast, I realized, you know, and I talked about this once in this year, I think you were there. You know, it's it's, you know, some people have, you know, the IQs and we love the EQ. And I think you have both I think you have both the social intelligence, you know, the the, you know, and and, you know, and the logic and for me, that's what I enjoy the most. Right? I enjoy that, you know, so for me, it's more of just talking to someone, because there aren't many people I can talk to, right? So just talking to someone, you know, dive into different things is for me is what I wanted. And it's what I got. And I think that's why if we continue and go deeper into the book, like I think what people what people want is the meat of the book. For me, you know, I have to build the trust for that. So this is the this is the stage one of trust, the next next next session might be chapter one and two. And the session after that will be chapter five. That's the deep shit, right? Okay, we're talking like, we're going into the addiction, we're going into the drugs, we're going into you know, I think earlier you were talking about how people do you know, some people do drugs to find an escape, right? For me, I didn't do drugs for an escape, so to speak, I did drugs because I crave this certain chaos. I needed a chaos in life, I needed a continuous story, an adventure that was written for me. And this is before you know, this is it goes a little deeper than that, right? It was crazy. So I can give you that and I've done you know, it's I'm not proud of it. It sounds like I'm bragging about I'm not, you know, it was the hardest, some hard, really terrible things. But we can go into that next time. And that'll definitely, definitely be some crazy shit. Yeah, I mean, like, look, man, so I think from my perspective, I really appreciated this conversation. And, you know, I know, a lot of times people are like, expect chapter five, or they think that what we want is chapter five, everyone is looking for deep, heavy shit with emotional catharsis and all this kind of stuff. I mean, I think that's great. And I you know, I enjoy having, I basically try to have the conversation that needs to be had. And and today, what I really appreciated about your conversation is that, you know, we have all these conversations with deep emotional shit. And then like, a lot of the people that are watching are like, now what? Like, it's great that we understand that. But like, how do I actually move forward? You know, or what they want is they want that emotional catharsis from from themselves. And what I actually really appreciate it about today is I think that, train, it sounds like you've had a lot of struggles, and you've basically overcome them in some way. I mean, I know, we still talk about how it's kind of a constant day to day thing. But you seem to have like, you know, grown into a different person from where you were many years ago. And I think what was really great is like having your perspective on how that growth happens and what are the principles involved. Sometimes people come from to watch stream from almost like a voyeuristic standpoint in terms of like, oh, like, what's, you know, what's deep down inside train. And like, that's cool and all. And that's like entertaining, and we get to see authenticity and stuff. But I hope that even if it wasn't quite as emotionally gratifying, I hope that today what we talked about was actually like practically helpful for a lot of people. It is. Yeah, I think it is. And real quick to add to this. If you think about why people enjoy watching the chapter five of each streamers, you know, a book, it actually ties into perfectly what we talked about earlier, right? What I mean by that is, I think a lot of people, a lot of people look at streamers, and they judge them for what they see. Millions of fans, a lot of money, whatever they want, friends with other popular people. And then when they get to see them at their vulnerable point, a place where they would have never imagined that this streamer has ever been a place where they're broken, lost, no sense of self, no sense of any sort of direction, nothing, just a broken lost individual, just like every individual in chat watching. When they see that, it helps them relate to the streamer more. And the very connection that I think we crave as human beings, the humanity, the empathy that is stripped from us because of technology, because of fronts that are placed by social medias, because of these very things that we refuse to admit, because we want everyone to think we're happy and great, are the very reasons that I think people love to watch the show. And I think it's one of the greatest things the show brings to make us all realize that no matter how much money we make, no matter how many girlfriends we have, at the end of the day, we are all in the same boat, broken, lost, and just trying to find who the fuck we are. And that's, I think, the most beautiful part about the show. It ties into exactly what we started with. Does that make sense? Yes, I'm with you. I mean, that's literally exactly what we're here for. I think you captured it beautifully, Trane. I think we're here because it was my experience working with individual gamers and people from this community that they didn't realize that their struggles are actually shared and that if we work on them together, we can make progress. And it's like, it's a thousand people. Imagine playing WoW without any wiki. It's like, in a way, that's really fantastic, but you're going to be level 20 for a long ass time. And so I think part of what the AOE healing is about is exactly what you said. And that's just people sharing, like, hey, it turns out that the struggles that I have, I can learn from someone else because they're doing the same way too. And I see a couple of people are questioning that reference. I'll explain it real quick. There's a reason why that one hyperlink is clicked the most by all of us for that one quest in that one area. We're all struggling on that problem. Now, the difference is if we didn't have that wiki, we didn't have the internet, we'd all individually think that we're the only ones struggling on that. And therefore we'd assume that we are just lacking in that department. But no, all of us are in the same boat in that same exact place, that same exact hill, right? It's crazy. All this comes full circle to what we started with. It's actually crazy how everything is coming to full circle and we can start chapter two next time. We'll go into deeper crazy shit. People can kind of get a context of, instead of diving into it right away. So, Trane, sometimes I teach people how to meditate. Are you interested in learning that today? Yeah, some breathing techniques would be good. I've tried making my own breathing techniques based on what I've seen in movies, but I end up just getting up and not doing them. So yeah, that'd be good. Okay. So I'm going to teach you actually something. Or meditation. Yeah. Yeah. So same thing. So I'm going to teach you something that I tend to teach people. We haven't taught it in a little while now. So I try to teach it every couple of weeks for people who are new to the show. Show, I guess I'm calling it now. Didn't realize we were show. So I'm going to teach you something called Nadi Shuddhi or Nadi Shodhana, which means alternate nostril breathing. And I want you to try to like, I'm going to teach you a particular way where you're going to breathe in through one nostril and then out through the other. And what it's going to be, this is going to be a meme. You want to know why? As soon as I plug one of my nostrils, there's going to be cocaine memes all over my Reddit. But just go ahead. It's an inside thing. Yeah. I'm sorry. I haven't brought that up. Okay. I mean, I'll tell you what, actually real quick, you teach me this and then I'll teach you one thing and then we'll wrap the session up. Is that cool? Sounds great. Do you want to teach me first or you want me to teach you first? Well, I'm going to teach you what you were confused about in the beginning. You know, I saw some vocabulary that was new. I'm going to teach you some meanings, some things, you know, and then we'll wrap it up. Yeah. All right. I was just really confused because you were like talking about cocaine memes and they're like, you're going to teach you something that I'm going to teach you something. And my mind just naturally can, anyway. So the interesting thing about Naadi Shuddhi is that, you know, earlier you were talking about like having energy in your body and your mind blocked. And so Naadi Shuddhi is really interesting because we have our central nervous system has two modes. It has the sympathetic nervous system, which is kind of fight or flight. It's sort of adrenaline. It's sort of like getting ready to go. And then it has your parasympathetic nervous system, which is rest and digest. So kind of calm, kind of chilling. And the interesting thing about this technique is that it actually like, it's been physiologically shown to balance these two parts of yourself. So to balance your yin and balance your yang. So if you're too hyped up and you need to calm down, it'll calm you down. And if you're feeling kind of sluggish and slow, it'll actually energize you. It's the technique. Yeah. So it's the technique that I teach people. This is kind of, you know, when I teach it, what I say to people is the feedback that I got, I used to teach a lot of primarily doctors. And so emergency room physicians came to me and they said, Hey, we love this technique. We think this is our favorite one. Do we think you should teach it to everybody? And I said, why is that? And they said, well, sometimes, you know, I'll have like someone like a gunshot victim in one bay. And then I'll have like a sexual assault victim who's a teenager in the second bay. And I have to walk out of one room in one frame of mind, which is like chest compressions, paddles, bleeding, IVs, all that kind of like medical show drama, and then move into a room and talk to a 15 year old kid about like how they were just assaulted. And so I need to like mentally reset. This is the technique that helps me mentally reset. Okay. For you, I understand sometimes you mentioned ADHD in the past, right? So I think, no, probably not. Yeah. More like bipolar. There's just a minute. You're just getting crazy. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, whatever. Yeah. So, so can you do this? So right hand, thumb out. Yeah. Great. Perfect. So what I want you to do is take your right thumb and block your right nostril and breathe in through your left. Oh, okay. That's my other hand. Okay. So breathe. Yep. Breathe in. Yeah. And then with a full breath, switch and block the other nostril with the other two fingers. Same hand, same hand. Yep. There you go. And breathe out. Good. Now breathe in through the same nostril without switching. And now switch and breathe out. Good. In through the same. No, don't breathe out. Just breathe in and then switch and out. Good. In. Switch out. Good. In. So basically you want to switch with a full breath of air. Switch out. Very good. In. Beautiful. You all should do this if you all are watching too. I strongly encourage it. So go ahead and close your eyes and we'll practice for about 60 to 90 seconds. Go ahead and finish the round that you're on. Okay. I feel good. I like that. What is good? It means I just feel calm, clear minded. I just feel good. Yeah. You know, I feel a little bit of both actually. I feel good. I feel calm. I feel good. Yeah, it's weird, right? It's like there's a certain kind of good. There are different kinds of good. But the cool thing training is that's 90 seconds. That's it, man. Like, yeah, it's such a short amount of time. My mom's been trying to get me to do breathing exercises since I was like 16 and I, you know, and yoga. Yeah. Yoga is actually good. Yeah. I did yoga once. I actually got bigger. Expanded my muscles somehow. Cool. I'm telling you some crazy shit. Yeah. Yeah. Some super saying to Goku type stuff. Crazy. No, I actually believe in it. No joke. I think breathing techniques are so like, I think that in itself is a way to get to, you know, it helps in the journey of like self discovery and stuff like that. I think it's really good. The yogis from ancient India would agree with you. Yeah. And to like follow your breath and imagine it through the body. Imagine it going through the lungs and the whatever. Yeah. All that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. You know, train, I think this is maybe a little bit unfair on my end, but I was struck by, I had assumed for whatever reason is probably unfair of me that you are not a deeply spiritual person, but I get the sense that you're a deeply spiritual person. Oh, I am. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I definitely want to see. So anyway, thank you very much. And we'll talk about that next time. Cause I think, I think what you're struck by initially, I want to get into that. I think we talked about a little bit in DMS, like the halo versus all those effects, you know, when you see somebody like, I don't want to talk about that next time as well, but real quick, before we go, I'm going to give you like two or three meetings right here. So no shot, right? When you hear no shot, bucko, that means no chance, like no way, right? Like, so like, let's say your wife comes in and let's say you tell your wife, I'm going to beat you in this video game. She's going to say, no shot. I'm giving her the W because you know, I got you. I'm going to back you up here. I'm not going to say you're going to win. You know, if I say you're going to win the couch next week. Yeah. So, you know, she's going to say no shot bucko. Nah, I'm going to win. Right. Next one is on a stack, right? On a stack is like, you know, imagine you and your wife are arguing. Now your wife says, listen, I'm 100% you know, on a stack, I'm telling you on a stack, I'm right. Then you go, okay, right on a stack means it's 100, 100% she's right. And we know that's always the case, right? That's what I've learned with having a girlfriend. She's always right. Even when she's not, she's right, right? Just how it is, right? It's one of the things we learn, you know, a buck 50 same thing. It just means 100%. They're right. Let's see what else. Last one, let's give you your bug in you bug in, right? That means you're just, yeah, you're, you're just, you know, you're bugging your, you know, you're crazy, you know, nah, it means no, it's not it, right? Let's say, you know, you tell me train, I think you're the best looking man in the world, right? Someone in chat that thinks I'm ugly might go, nah, Dr. K, yo doc, you're bugging, right? No shot, he's the best looking you're bugging doc, right? So I'll talk to that. So whenever you, you know, appreciate you ever do a show with Nick Merckx, right? This is going to be necessary because you won't understand the thing he's saying. Unless you understand this lingo. I don't know who that is, but great. Now I'm equipped to talk to Nick Merckx. Yeah, which is good. You're equipped to talk to him. Yeah, thanks. I really do appreciate catching up on the lingo because like, I literally don't understand. So I was confused a couple weeks ago. And so someone said Keemstar. And I thought Keemstar was like a term, like, oh, like that person's like a Keemstar, like that, I didn't know what it meant, you know, because it sounds like a term. And then I learned that that was a person. Yeah. And, and, you know, so it's like, it's like, I don't know, like, I don't know, on a short stack, if that's like a streamer or like a perp, like, I just don't know if, so I really do appreciate it because I don't know. I mean, like, you know, I know I'm a boomer, but like, holy hell, like the lingo evolves so fast. Yeah. If you ever run into, yeah, if you ever run into Keem, you just gotta, you know, make sure to stay on topics like, you know, aliens and that's it. Nothing, you know, nothing else, right? Did you just, just keep the topic with aliens or like, you know, just some, some, some, some non-harmful crazy shit and just aliens and that's it, right? Everything else. Yeah. You want to talk to like, talk to me, you know, talk to me. And I feel like you're trying to educate me, but I, the entire time we've been talking train, I have always understood you despite you being confused about like, do you feel me? Do you understand? Am I making sense? This is the one time I have no idea what the fuck you're talking about. So two or three questions that I have, first of all, is if you ever run into Keem, you make it sound like he's a random encounter. Like I'm going to be like out, like, you know, farming my apples and like a wild Keem star appears. So I don't know if that ever happens. And the second thing is like, what do you mean by talk about aliens instead of other shit? I'm just saying keep it to like a casual talk of, you know, like stuff you do with your friends when you're like high or something, right? Like, you know, I mean, you know, that's, that's what I do. I keep it to like a casual alien, you know, talk gold in the, you know, Arizona Grand Canyon. I keep it to like that ends, right? Because otherwise, you know, against arguments, right? Because there's different political opinions of different things. You know, it gets a little crazy. So just trust me. Yeah. Yeah. I don't imagine that. I mean, I guess I theory I could talk to him, but you know, I don't randomly talk to people, but I appreciate the advice anyway. It sounds like steer clear of any kind of sensitive topic is what I'm hearing. Yeah. I would do like, yeah, just to like treasure, treasure and Grand Canyon. That's what I did. Right. I just I try to keep it to like a nice. Yeah, nevermind. Let's get up to the point is, it was great being here. Yeah, I'm a little bit. It was great. Talk to you. I you've succeeded in confusing me, which you have been foiled for the last like two hours. But now I don't even know. Well, talk to him about aliens. Like, it's just a weird fucking thing. It's like, hey, like, oh, like, this is my little cousin, Timmy. If you want to like get in good with him, talk to him about aliens. You know, he likes, he likes tinfoil hats and propellers. That's like, okay, like, I don't know, is it like a easy UFO buff? Like, I don't I'm good. I mean, I like talking about aliens. Like, I think it's fascinating. So do I. I love aliens, too. I'm just saying, like, it's a topic that can never go into a harmful direction. That's what I mean. Right. Some, you know, do topics go into harmful directions with, you know, yeah, you know, if we start talking about, you know, you know, like, you know, just some crazy shit comes out, you know, some people think things some people don't, you know, you just want to talk about things that don't train. It's been a great show. Let's just let's just stop because I don't know. Yeah, yeah. Sometimes you talk about things and some things come out. I don't even know what that means, man. Anyway, let's just stop it here. We're doing so right. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. All right. Take care. Awesome. We'll do another show soon. And yeah, thanks a lot. Deeper stuff. Thank you. Take care. Love you. Bye. We did so well for so long. We did so well.