 Do I call you Jake and bake or Jake or just Jake's spot? Jake is fine. Okay. So Jake, can you tell me a little bit about yourself and what we're talking about today? Uh, sure. Um, wait, what is that one question or two questions? Oh, very yeah. Okay. Yeah. Um, my name is Jake and I'm from LA. Okay. And, um, um, I, I'm an stream on Twitch. I'm known primarily for like IRL streaming or outdoor streaming. I lived in Japan for almost three years and started doing IRL streaming out there. And then it kind of turned into what I do now, which is kind of crazy. Um, also fast. And yeah, a lot of people know me for being out in Japan, but I recently moved back home to LA just to kind of make a home base again, uh, in the midst of kind of weird times, but yeah, so I'm back home. Cool. And, uh, yeah, we're talking about today, I think is I actually have, I mean, I think it's just general, like anxiety stuff. Um, I struggled with it once when I was like 19 or so, and I kind of did some stuff myself and I actually, I totally got over it and I was, I'm good. And then in the past couple of years, I'll say like maybe a year and a half or two years after streaming, I definitely, it's kind of came back and taken hold and I, I can like feel it and I kind of know the, the, I know what it feels like when it happens. I had it before. So I got out kind of like here in lingering and yeah, I don't know. Just, that's, I think, yeah, I think that's what we're going to be talking about. I've never talked to anybody about it, like professionally ever. So I've no idea or expectation, you know, uh, yeah, that's it. Let me see if I can, I had a feeling something like this might happen. Let me see if I, um, so that's really cool, Jake. So you said that you struggled with anxiety for a little bit when you were 19 and then it got better and then maybe it's, it's gotten good or it's, it started to come back a little bit since you started streaming. Is that fair to say? Um, yeah, I guess, yeah, sure. Okay. That's fair. And can you tell me just a little bit about, um, how you decided to go to Japan? Sure. Uh, I went to university in LA and then after university, I had an opportunity to study Chinese in China for two years. So I went there for two years and I came back to LA and actually started working at a, at a startup for a year. And after a year, I was like, I just felt like I was the most alive when I was kind of abroad and uncomfortable and learning something. And I just, I mean, decided to save up some money, quit my job and go to Japan for one year to study Japanese. In which case I just started streaming when I went there. And then that one year of Japanese learning turned into me streaming now for, you know, however many years and everything kind of like one 18 based on, you know, one 18, one 18 from what I thought, you know, what would happen. So what did you think would happen? I mean, my original plan was go for years, study Japanese, come back home and just continue working with, hopefully like it, just a more built up or improved version of myself, you know, with another language ability or something and just continue working, you know. But yeah, I've been just kind of writing that. Can you tell me what, what IRL streaming or like, like outdoor streaming or what is that and what were you streaming in Japan? Yeah. I mean, it was, yeah, it's crazy fun. IRL streaming is some people say in your life, I call it incorporating real life, but it's just, you know, streaming outdoors, whether it be, it doesn't have to be outdoors, I'm sorry, but something that is, could be, I guess, like a real life experience. That's my idea is like streaming a real life experience. So for me, I wanted to base it around like, okay, I wanted to kind of stream my life as it developed in Japan because I went out by myself. I didn't have any friends and I wanted to kind of stream that experience for everyone, which I think people started to like. Cool. Yeah. And so are you still streaming in LA? Yeah. So I moved back. I mean, the idea was to move back because everything kind of has changed more into like traveling and exploring on more of a like a little bit more planned content type of stuff. So my idea was just to have a home base and travel from here quite often actually. But yeah, we're still streaming. I mean, doing a lot more computer streams now, but just for the time being while the world kind of settles down, I think. And yeah, yeah. So everything's still the same. Yeah. Still streaming. Yeah. Just format's a little bit different. Yep. And can you tell me a little bit about when you said that you had anxiety when you were 19? Like that's quite specific. Can you tell me what was going on or what you mean by that? Sure. I'm yeah, I've always kind of referenced this on my stream, I guess, but I think I was like 18 or 19 and I had really bad anxiety, which I didn't know at the time what it was when I first started feeling how I felt. And how did you what did you feel? Can you tell us that? Yeah. So at that time, it was it was a very like um, it was it was it was a feeling of like constant like nervousness and I don't know if it's like fear, but I was just very worried person at the time. And I mean, I don't know if I want to talk about there. I mean, there, I guess the root of the worry or what I really felt at the time was like, you know, I didn't go outside a lot of stuff. I wouldn't go outside to like a big public events. I wouldn't like I wouldn't I would always worry about weird things like like what? I don't know. Oh, gosh. It's okay to have irrational. Thoughts. Yeah, sure. I mean, I would worry about things like if I went out to a public event and because I would always have like stomach aches and like nervous stomach and like, oh, what if I can't find a bathroom or like where's the exit at a at a movie theater? Like it would be weird. Like I would go to movie theater and I'd have to know where the exit star where the bathroom is like kids had to go to the bathroom. It sounds really weird. But it's not that weird. But we'll get to that in a second. Yeah, sure. Um, yeah, those were like the I would say the surface feelings I would have about anxiety that time and it was kind of like all those words like debilitate. Is that the word? debilitating? Sure. So it would definitely affect like my normal life. And what's crazy about that is that growing up, I was always like happy go lucky. And like when people would mention anxiety in high school, I'd be like, like, what's that? Like, are you talking about the like, just don't worry so much. But like, it just hit me like kind of randomly. And I was like, at first, I thought it was a physical problem. So I went to the doctor and like, oh, you're fine. I was like, and I was like, dude, and then I had to kind of figure it out. And it took a little bit of steps and a lot of like, self realizations and like mindset changes, actually. And I think I really grew a lot out of that when I came out of that. And can you tell us about that steps? What were the steps? Sure. At the time, I kind of slowly realized after like, do my little research and talking to my friends, like, okay, I think I just am struggling from anxiety, like this word. And I never talked to anybody really about it, except for my best friends. And basically, after I realized what it was, I just would look up different what's the word, not solutions, but like different, like different things that people would do to kind of get over their anxiety. And I would just try to little ones like meditating or just what else did you try? Or what seemed to work? For me, it was kind of just trying to find what the root of it was, and just like, like a little weed that was in there and like dig it out, like just attack it head first and figure out what is the root cause and figure that out. And then like have a total mindset change that actually kind of like got me out of it. What do you think was the root? So what I think the root was at that time was I was fearing the future. I was fearing things like death, like not specifically like, oh my God, I'm afraid I'm going to die tomorrow. Like I wasn't like that, but it was definitely some weird fear. And I think it was because I was actually brought up like very religious. And for some reason, after high school, lots of things started changing and you know what I was doing and my, I was really finding my own path. I think a lot of fears are like adding up of like, you know, like after I started feeling a little bit weird, I'd be like, oh man, what if I'm sick? Like, oh man, what if, you know, what if I was in like die? And I was like, fear these things. And I think honesty was cause I don't know. I think it was, I think something that had to do with the religion part of my life. Can you tell us a little bit about that? Yeah, I was just brought up super Christian, I guess, like going to church all the time. And I stopped going when I was like 17 or 18, just because I just didn't feel like it was for me. And then, um, so, you know, I hear people say this actually a fair amount super Christian. It's not just Christian. It's like super, yeah. Super Christians, like super Christians, like your mom, like makes you a church every Sunday. If you don't go to church, then you're like ground, like you're in trouble. And like it's, and you know, I can't, I can't play games with any blood in it. And I can't watch the Simpsons and that's super. What's wrong with the Simpsons? I don't know. It probably has like, you know, like anti-Semitic or anti-Semitic, what's not semantic, semantic, and just anti-Christian, like jokes or something. I don't know. I've never heard anything religious on the Simpsons, but you know, I haven't, Hey, that's, that's why it's super Christian is because I mean, people can find something and nothing. So interesting. And so what was it like growing up in that kind of house? So it sounds like your mom was, was quite religious. What about your dad? Uh, no, my dad really wasn't that religious. He's my mom's like typically very conservative. Uh, and super Christian. Not as a bad thing. I mean, that's just a mom. And then my dad is just more aggressive, just more like, um, I don't know if the word liberal, it's not like a political word all the time, is it? But he's just got more like, he's very like maybe LA, I guess he's just, you know, progressive, I think, and he's very open minded and it sounds like he's maybe less rigid and a little bit more flexible. Maybe that's definitely, he's, I'd always talk to him whenever there was like anything going on in high school or some serious thing or do you have siblings? One brother. And is, is your brother religious? No, he's kind of the same as me. I think around, you know, he always go to church growing up in high school. I think he just found his own kind of path as well. So me and my brother and my dad are very kind of very similar in that. And my mom is. So, and your brother's older or younger? Older by eight years. Oh, wow. That's a little bit older. And, and what was y'all's relationship like when you were growing up? I mean, he's quite a bit older than you, right? So. Yeah, it was, it was pretty, I think standard, like, you know, pick on me because I'm the younger kid, but like, as we got older, we, as I got to be like 20, I think, and out of high school, we definitely started getting more close and now we're actually very close. We actually live in like the same apartment complex when I moved back and like we hang out almost every day. But I would say it was very typical. There's, yeah, just sibling eight years older and you know, just the normal pick on you, younger kids, your younger, your younger brother kind of stuff. But sure. And, and so you said that you felt like some of your kind of fear of the future or death and it's okay to like, yeah, how can I say this? It's perfectly fine to say things that sound like they don't make sense or are like super psychoanalytic. And yeah, I'm also probably more hesitant saying it because like I know people are watching. So like, I'm trying not to make that affect anything. I'm not looking at chat or anything, but like definitely as like a sure what my brain is trained to think about. What effect does that have? Let's talk about that. What effect does that have on you that people are watching? Uh, I don't know. I've always been someone doesn't, I try not to really care about people think about me. I've always kind of been that way in my life, but I think over years of streaming, it's just knowing it's not like I'm trying to appeal to anybody, but it's just, maybe you do have a little bit of feeling of what people are thinking, like what they're saying about what you're saying. Like, and, and, and so it sounds like it occupies. How can I say this? So it sounds like knowing that people are watching, even if you try to not let it affect you, occupies a little bit of space in your mind. And there's really no way of getting at around that. Yeah. Yeah. I would say that's pretty hard. I haven't really, I mean, I would assume most streamers have that little occupancy. Yeah. So, um, you know, this is one of the advantages of being a boomer is that I tend to be oblivious to most things. So it's easy for me to forget. I get there. You'll get there one day, man. You just need, you know, it sounds like you're crossing 30 and just give it a couple of years. And what, once, once you don't recognize what kids say, like once you don't understand terminology on Twitch or don't understand the games that people are playing, or this is a big one. Do you have a younger person who helps you with set up your technology? No, I'm, I mean, see, that's not a boomer then. So you, to become a real boomer, you have to have someone who helps you set up your technology, which you thought you knew how to set up. Okay. And, um, so that's when you're going to be a real boomer. And that's when you'll become impervious to the opinions of people on the internet, but not really impervious because no one's impervious, but looking forward to it, you'll get some damage resistance. Okay. Good. Um, so tell me a little bit about like when you were saying, uh, you know, you felt like some of the, your fears of, of death, which I know sounds like so grandiose, but, um, you know, some of your fears were rooted in your religious upbringing. Can you help us understand a little bit about like how those two things are tied together? And even if it's not like a, you know, like a one-to-one. Sure. Uh, yeah. Again, I don't think that the full root of that whole entire idea was just like, Oh, I'm afraid to die. That's like, yeah, what I was trying to say, but there's just some aspects of like, Oh, don't be worried about like going, like just things I couldn't, I don't know, it's just stupid stuff, but okay. Uh, as far as that specific question, cause like, you know, in church you're taught like, okay, if you don't believe in the perfect way to believe in, believe in this scenario, Jesus and blah, blah, like you go to hell. And so I was like, Oh damn, like if I, if I was gonna die, I'm going to go to hell. Like, you know, that was a little tiny fear at the time. Uh, right now, I mean, that doesn't occupy or it's definitely not an issue right now, but at that time, that was, I think that was it. And like, I was like, you know, looking up on the internet, like conspiracy theories and like, just like end of the world stuff at the time. And those, it was like so stupid not looking back, but that was a huge, that's what caused a lot of stuff. A lot of my problems, I think was that like this constant bombarding of worrying about what's going to be in the future. Sure. Yeah. So, so yeah, were you worried about particular aspects of the future? Sounds like, yeah, I mean, death and the afterlife is one of them, but like, were there particular things, like sometimes people worry about being alone or they worry about, you know, not being respected or able to support themselves or living up to their potential. Honestly, I think I was just fearful of, like, I think the root of it was the death thing. And I, after, like, after I'd be more and more like fearful, I'd always just continue looking up things about like how bad the world, like what's happening to the world right now. And, oh man, like into the, like I say, honestly, end of the world stuff, like it was kind of weird, like 2012 weird, like just stuff that I, it's, I don't know. I kind of get to let it now, but yeah, does it sound kind of embarrassing to say that stuff? It definitely, yeah, it's definitely embarrassing, but I don't know. I think a lot of people kind of did that. I mean, I was an internet person and I was always on there and being, you know, inputting so much and trying to sift through it. And yeah. Yeah. So Jake, let me offer, if it's okay, I want to offer like one or two thoughts about your feeling of embarrassment. Is that cool? Yep. So the first thing is that like everyone feels like their anxiety doesn't make sense. Everyone like, but it's not, you know, anxiety is not designed to sort of make sense. It's not, it's just not how it works. Like our, our, our mind is a thinking machine. And sometimes it generates thoughts that don't make sense. And that's actually perfectly okay. Like, like voicing thoughts that feel irrational to you doesn't make you a stupid person. It's just, your mind just comes up with that shit. Yeah. And, and when you look up stuff, how did it affect your anxiety? I mean, it would just add to it. Like I would make, think about more things like pile on more shit. Yeah. So, so then let's think about that for a second. So what, you know, what, what did you gain? And I, and I want to acknowledge that you did get something, right? So let me maybe put it in another way. How are you satisfied by looking up something on the internet? Because it sounds like it fueled your anxiety, but what did you like, you know, cause I'm guessing, getting the sense that you were hungry for something, you would do a Google search and then you would read something and then you'd feel satisfied, even though your anxiety would increase. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah, it does. Like, I might've been getting a feeling of satisfaction by, by thinking that I was like obtaining some knowledge that I wish everyone else knew. Like you guys need to know this. Like, come on, like this is happening. Like that's probably, cause I'd like talk to my friends about it. And like, I wasn't like, I don't know, maybe that, that, that if I think about it, that'd be my answer. I think that would make sense. And I could, even thinking back, I think that's a feeling that I would get. Sure. So, so, so you were learning something that other people didn't know. Did you feel like doing research helped you prepare? I mean, I didn't really prepare it because nothing happened, but yeah, maybe, yeah, I don't like, yeah. Yeah, sure. Right. So like, there's an unknown, there's a problem out there that like, maybe the world could end and like, what are you going to do about it? Cause your anxiety is like, what are you going to do about that? Yeah. Does that question make sense? It's like, we got to do something, right? So like anxiety drives you to do something. Right. So like, you have to plan, you have to know where the exits are. You have to know where the bathrooms are. You have to know when the world is going to end. Yep. Yeah. I mean, it's almost like a cycle. Like it's fueling itself, I guess. Yeah. Is that how it felt to you? I mean, until I stopped doing that. Yeah. So how did you, okay. So you said something about a change in mindset. So what, what changed for you? How were you able to stop indulging? Sure. Um, uh, I've always thought that I'm like a pretty, like, like strong willed person. And okay. Um, when I, when I like realized, okay, like Jake, you're doing something wrong, you need to realize what's going on here. I actually just really thought about the root, like the deepest root of what could cause this. And for me, the deepest root was like, I was like, if you go down the trail, it's like, okay, if the world ended, what's the worst that's gonna happen. You're going to die. And then I took that out as like, that's the deepest root of what's causing this. So I just literally like thought to myself, this is like, it sounds so stupid. And like, it's some, don't judge yourself. Just speak. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. I do have a, I do have a lot of, what's that humor call? You just talk shit about yourself. Self-deprecating. Yeah. It's like, anyway, so it's good and bad, but anyway, okay. So I just created a mindset and I pull myself like this and I've told myself this over and over again at this time was, uh, all right, well, don't worry about all this other shit. And I basically created this mindset where if you were to die tomorrow, you want to be happy for the life that you live today and everything before. So with that mindset, it like actually like completely, it's not like one 80, I woke up the next day after thinking that and was fine, but that completely changed everything. Okay. After I created that mindset for myself, I started like every day working on myself, like physically, like not crazy, Jim Chad, but like I would, I would like, you know, make conscious decisions, decisions to wake up a little earlier, go on a little jog, start working out. I would start eating healthier. I would like basically use all of my time that I had to be very productive. And with the mindset that if I was to die tomorrow, I'd be happy for everything I did. And that's what actually caused me to go to like China and stuff like that was like, I just thought I would basically try to take risks and make decisions that would make me like proud of the life that I was living. And that was like, actually, yeah, I was in, honestly, I was in like bliss. Like after I came out of that, like maybe I was 20. And I came out of like a long relationship too, but that the relationship was not a, actually like, actually like a big thing in my head at the time. But anyway, after that, like, you know, after a relationship, you go, you start working out. But after that, I was in like bliss. I was in probably the happiest time. Yeah. It was a very, just, I don't know, very positive and feel good. Yeah. Yeah. So let me ask you something like that. What do you, what do you think would have happened, Jake, if you never got that anxiety at the age of 19? What do you think you'd be right now? Honestly, I might've just gone normal route and like just went to college, started working in a marketing firm and not really done what I did. Yeah. I mean, yeah. So think about that. No, yeah, totally. When I, I've always looked back at that and been like, and it's made me realize a lot of things, like when there are, you know, you have to have downs to know the ups, you have to kind of see a little darkness to appreciate the light and like things like that. I've always thought. But yeah, I mean, well, I mean, that's, that sounds like a little bit of an understatement to me, to be honest. It sounds like a generalization, like you, there have to be downs to be ups. Sounds like a safe and logical thing to say. But what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, your anxiety altered the course of your life in a drastic way. Yep. Is that, what do you think is up with that? Like, do you think that that's, how do you understand that? Or do you not really think about it much or? Well, no, I, maybe I don't think about it now. It's kind of just become normal for me. But I can definitely say that it made me learn a lot about myself at that time, because I was someone who was like, oh, I can never get anxiety. That's how I always thought. I was like, what is this? I can, I'm fine. I'm happy. I'm happy. Like, but I got it. And like, I didn't know what it was. And it was kind of scary. And then it made me realize a lot about myself and kind of how I wanted to live after, you know, like, yeah. Yeah. And so you went to China. Sounds like you use the word bliss. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if that's the right word, but sure. It is. Yeah. Just speak your truth, man. It doesn't have to be right. Yep. Okay. And then you went to Japan and when did the anxiety start to creep in? Yeah. So, I mean, it started maybe, I would say, let's just say a year and a half ago or more, like around a year and a half ago. Yeah. I would say I specifically remember like the first day. I, like, I remember actually the first day I felt the feeling of anxiety and like right away, I was like, holy shit. Cause like there's sometimes in life, like in huge, sure. I do want to say though, that there are some times in life, right throughout this blissful time that it was like, I'd catch myself like, Oh my God, your little nervous Jake breathe. Like I would catch myself. I would breathe. I'd relax and like, I'd be fine. But anyways, about let's say two years ago or a year and a half ago in Japan, I had the feeling of like, shit, Jake, you got a little anxiety now calm down. And it didn't really go away. Like it usually does. It was actually on New Year's day of 2019, New Year's day, 2019. Okay. And what was going on that day? Do you remember? I just came back from seeing my family in LA and I did a crazy New Year's Eve stream in Japan. Like they're like the craziest streams, like just out partying all night and just having a really insane stream. And then I was supposed to stream the next day on New Year's day. And I just, I was like mentally just not feeling like I was like, dude, like I just don't want to go outside right now. I just, it was kind of like first time in, in ever since being in Japan or being streaming that I felt that way. And I remember talking about all my discord a little bit with my, my, my viewers and stuff. And it was weird because I was like, it's a big day for us, you know, but yeah, I mean, that's the first day that I had it and it slowly would be more and more. And then it's been kind of, since that last year and a half been kind of just up and down. I can feel the exact same symptoms I had before, you know, a little mental and physical stuff that's being effective. But yeah, that's it. That's about a year and a half ago, I guess. Yeah. So, and, and what are you, when you're, what are the, what kind of thoughts do you have? Good breathing by the way. Oh, thanks. I did a little yoga this morning. Good for you. Um, that's a very, that's a very open ended question. And I know it's supposed to be like that. So I'm trying not to think too much about it before I answer. Um, at that time or right now? At, at that time. Um, at that time, I just thought like, all right, you're just going through a little like, maybe a couple of days of just feeling a little nervous, anxiety, maybe a little bit too much going on. Maybe you just need to relax and chill. Maybe don't, you know, don't drink so much. Cause when I went to Japan, socially, you do drink a lot when you meet people. And I was like, the majority of my stream is going out and exploring and meeting, meeting people. And you know, okay, just don't drink and chill and you'll be fine. And, uh, yeah, I wasn't, yeah. I mean, I did, I did. And then is, is your anxiety continued to grow? Do you remember what kind of thoughts you had? Like, let's say like end of 2019 or like fall of 2019, like what we are. So in the past, it was, you know, your anxiety used to tell you, you have to find the exits. Maybe you had some fear of death. What kind of thoughts do you have now? Um, now my thoughts and I don't think these thoughts are triggers for the anxiety. I think that they are a cycle of adding to what I have, but now I'm thinking, damn Jake, you have these same symptoms. Like I feel very like fuzzy thoughts. Like I'm just, I feel very, like my mental is not as sharp. And when I first started mentioning this, my streams like, oh, you're just getting old. Like it's so normal. And maybe, maybe that is part of it. And maybe I'm just overthinking that I'm just becoming a little more slow, but it's like recognize, it's like recognizable to me. Um, my vision is like become super blurry in the past year and a half. Like, like it's insane. I was always like 2020 and then like, I don't know. It's just, there's like a lot of little physical things. Okay. Any chance you've seen an optometrist recently? I went two weeks ago. Yeah. Here actually. And it just gave me glistening symptoms. Here actually. And it just gave me glasses that are coming soon, but it was nice. I mean, it's a relief. It's a relief to go and like just to rule out that there's any physical problem. It's very nice. But, um, what are you afraid of? To be honest, I'm, I'm, oh, am I afraid of shoot? Okay. Well, my first answer was I'm afraid that there is something like a little physical problem, like with me that I don't know about, which is actually really bad because that leads back to my, you know, the time when I would always fear. What's the, you know, fear. Okay. And what would it mean if you had a physical problem? Uh, that you'd be, I mean, that would be, I don't know what that mean. Yeah. Um, what does that mean? I don't understand the question. What's the significance if you did have a physical problem? Let's assume it was true. Um, then I guess that would just, I mean, it would suck. What would suck about it? That it could, uh, I don't know how to answer that. Okay. That's okay. Um, do you feel okay not knowing how to answer some questions? It's not like there's a right answer. It's just, you know, sometimes I can ask a bad question frequently. Are you okay with that? I don't know. I think I'm okay with that. Are you okay with that? I don't know. I know it's fine. I asked, I just don't know like how to answer. I won't suck by it. I mean, I guess I just don't want to fall back into what I was already talking about. What I got over was like, okay, what's the worst can happen? Like, okay, you're sick and you could just die. So I mean, yeah. So, so, okay, let's point out what just happened, Jake. Okay. So you're doing good buddy. Stay with me. Okay. Spanked right now. Huh? Okay. No, I said I felt you being spanked. I knew who's being, who's doing the spanking. I'm not being spanked. No, not that. I mean like, well don't speak, but you know, like I spent like, no, I, I understand. I think it's fair for you to feel like you're being spanked, but who's doing the spanking. That makes sense. I mean, I, right now I'm kind of spanking myself because I'm realizing that there, that this isn't a majority. I really don't think this is a majority of what started the cause of this right now, but it definitely has become now a, a part of what, yeah, what my anxiety is right now. It definitely has the hypochondria and yeah. Let me, let me understand. So I think you were, I think you had answers for my questions. I just don't think you liked them or weren't comfortable saying them because you gave us a little clue there. So I think what the silence was, was actually like conflict within you. Is that fair or were you just drawing a blank? No, it was not. I mean, I had like answers inside me. I just was like thinking, is that, you don't want to say them. Yeah. Yeah. So, so thanks for giving us a glimpse because I think that that's enough to get us started. And, and you know, it's okay to not give us a glimpse, but I'll tell you a little bit more about glimpses in a second. So the first thing is that what I kind of heard from you is like, let me know if this is right. Okay. So you didn't precisely say this, but it's kind of like, well, if I do have something wrong with me, then like, maybe I could die, but oh shit, like we already dealt with that. That was like back when we were 19. So like, I don't want it to be that again. Like I thought that that was taken care of. Yeah. What do you think about that? Is that fair? Yeah, no, that's that, that's totally fair. And that's why I was kind of like weird answering that way. But I, but these are just, these are thoughts I've had after the, after what I feel like was my, like when I started getting anxiety again, which I really, at the time I'm just like, I was, there was no thoughts of that in my head at that, like when it first, the first day. And that's so like, the anxiety is definitely kind of not snowballed, snowballed maybe into like adding on extra little things now, which is like, shit now to start like pruning more shit off before I can get to that route again. And, ah, yeah. Yeah. So, so here's, here's what I'm hearing from you is that you don't want to say that answer because temporarily your anxiety, it's sure it's become maybe a fear of death again, but that happened later after the snowball started forming. So that's not, you're telling yourself that that's not the right answer because you started experiencing anxiety before you started thinking about death. Maybe. So you're kind of discounting that even though that's the answer that pops into your head. Yeah. Yeah. Have you started feeling old recently? Uh, no, I think, I think, okay. Yep. I don't think that's ever been like a thought. Yep. I mean, yeah, no, the chat says you're a boomer and I just laugh at it. Like, yeah, I am. I'm going bald, but like, I don't think about your mental, not being as sharp. How long have you been feeling that way? Um, honestly, just like since the exact, since I started feeling anxiety, which, which was, this was like the key thing of when I was like 19 or so I was the same as very foggy. Like, I remember like, I remember like specifically when I was young, like when I anxiety, I'd remember like when I turned my head and I tried to look, I couldn't focus on things like right away. That was like a physical thing that caught that would that was like one physical thing that I had when I anxiety and I noticed that right away a year and a half ago and I was like, Holy crap, like I'm getting anxiety again. Like I realized I was like, shit, Jake, you got to figure this out. Okay. Yeah. So one thing I think, yeah. Jake, I'm going to offer a couple of thoughts. Okay. The first is that I get the sense that you're trying to give us a, the right answer. So I don't want the right answer. There isn't a right answer. I just want whatever's in your head is irrational and as stupid as it is. Cause I, I don't think it's irrational or stupid. And even if you feel it's irrational or stupid, like I'm even happy with you sharing with me what your struggle to speak is. So even if you can't give me an answer, if you can share with me why you can't give me an answer, that would be awesome. Okay. So what we want is a window into your mind, because like, basically we're going to look under the hood of the car. Yeah, please. And, and, and so like, for example, this whole process of like, you kind of saying, I don't know how to answer that. I think you had answers, but something kept you from sharing those answers because you were judging what your answers were. There was judgment there that kept you from speaking. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I mean, yeah, I overthink way too much. Right. So, so even there, so like, like what was that? Was that bad? No, no, no. What was that? How do we describe that? I overthink way too much. Am I admitting something? Am I realizing? Is it a, uh, it's a judgment. Oh, okay. Right. So this kind of also goes back to self-deprecating. Like, yeah, I'm very, very self-deprecating and I don't, I hope that hasn't affected me like made it worse. Yeah. So I think that there's a certain amount of humor to that, which is completely fine, but do you judge yourself frequently? Do you mean like, just like I just did when I said, I mean, yeah, yeah, I guess all the time. Yeah. So I usually do it very lightheartedly. Usually like I'll say typically it's very lighthearted. Sure. I I'm with that because I don't think you, you strike me. So some people like weigh themselves down with heavy judgment. Yeah. You're in, you know, these are people who like tell themselves that they're ugly or pieces of shit or things like that. You strike me as someone who's quite confident and has generally speaking, like a positive outlook. So I don't think you judge yourself in the same way is like the heavy judgments. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say that's fair. But I still think that you have a very, a relatively common subtle judgment going on that because you're a relatively resilient guy, you can use humor as a defense mechanism and kind of like laugh it off, but you still judge yourself in ways that you can handle, but you're still doing it. Does that make sense? Yes. It does make sense. And you've been doing that your whole life or? I actually probably, I guess, yeah. I mean, I've always been like the class clown that developed into probably that kind of weird using jokes or something to always have a fallback, which is, is that right? Is that weird? Is that like a bad? No, no, no. It's just, it makes me want to ask a fall, like a, like a fall back from what? Like, what are you falling back from? Oh, I don't know. Like, I don't know if it's not like a, I'm just, I don't know. Like I would just say things. Oh man. I don't know. What are you feeling right now? I don't know. I'm feeling, I'm, I'm trying to think about what I fall back from. I don't know if it's anything specific. Yeah. Yeah. I know. What are you feeling right now? Oh, um. Is you think about what to fall back from, like something happened, like you started smiling a lot, but I don't think it was, I think it was like a deflecting smile. That's a very, I smile a lot and a lot, a lot is deflecting. And I used to get made fun of for smiling, actually. Sorry, random. It kind of sucked. So, so what happened if you didn't make a joke? What do you think would have happened when you were, for lack of a better term, and I realize I'm asking you a really broad question when you were young, is there some weird ass random thought that pops into your head? If I asked a broad question, what would happen if you didn't make a joke growing up? What were you afraid of? I don't know. Maybe I just liked people laughing. Like I just liked, I like, I like the reactions. Definitely. That's maybe that's, I like reactions and that's definitely, yeah, that's been a good and bad thing in my life. I think I like reactions. Okay. That's how maybe I, yeah, maybe I fish too much for reactions. Do you? Yeah, definitely. I mean, yeah. Yep. I mean, I think I like reactions. I like reactions. I like reactions. I like reactions. Yeah, definitely. I mean, yeah. Yep. Why not? Like, what do reactions do for you? They tell me about people. What do they tell you about people? This is weird. Okay, sorry. It's not weird. So I gotta watch how I say things now. No, no, no, no, no, it is it. No, Jake, that's a great thing to say, man. Because it's I was about to say, that's what we fucking do here, man. Okay. It gets weird. That means we're doing it right. Like if I said something like kind of weird or obscure, and then I use a joke, like a laugh or a joke as a fallback. After I say the weird and obscure thing, you can see how someone reacts and then like kind of get a feeling of like what they think about that. And if it's a bad feeling they get, then you can fall back on the laugh. And it's like a not, it's like normal, then you can like, then it's okay. Yeah. So let's think about that. Was there a particular that feeling of saying something weird and getting that reaction? Do you remember a time in your life where like you said something and you got that reaction really, really powerfully and you were like, nope, never gonna do that again. I don't know if there's anything specific I can think of. I can think about that. I'm even doing in this call with you. Like I'm definitely the way I'm talking to you. I'm like saying something I'm saying that's weird. And I'm actually kind of curious. I'm not like outwardly curious, but in the back of my mind, I'm like kind of curious like this. You think that's weird? Like, yep. And then I'll like, and that's, that's that. So can I put words to that? Yes. Yes. Please. Yeah. How are you doing Jake? That's not honestly, I'm a little nervous. I have no expectations, but like I've never talked to anybody like that's, you know, that knows, you know, or at least has some professional background in things. So this is kind of cool for me. Okay. So what I'm hearing is a fear of judgment, right? You're gauging how we're going to judge you. And, and, and if we don't judge you in the right way, then you've got to fall back, right? And then you can alter our judgment by making a joke. Correct. And then, and then, so we're gonna, we're gonna try, okay, we're gonna play a little game. So say something to me, say anything. Fuck, I gotta do this properly. I'm gonna try to keep a straight face. Okay. So this is what I'm gonna do. So you're gonna say something. I'm gonna do my best to be neutral or negative. Okay. And then I want you to notice how you feel. And then see yourself want to crack a joke. Okay. Okay. But I got up. Okay. Okay. Wow. You're in Patagonia. I think only a bunch of Chad's were Patagonia. No, I'm just kidding, man. It looks good on you. You feel it? Just wait, what'd you do? What are you trying to like? No, what did you, when I didn't say anything, what did you do? I'm not, I can't tell. No, I didn't. I was scared that you thought I was serious and that you, that you're actually upset that I don't like your Patagonia jacket, which I like. And then, and then what did you do? I just joked about it. I said, no, dude, it's cool. So, so, so when you thought I was serious for a second, like, did you get that feeling? I mean, I was also trying to role play, like you break, broke it down, but yeah, I did a little bit. I mean, I was also trying to play, like, you broke, broke it down, but yeah, I did a little bit. Right. So that's so like, and then, and then like, what is that feeling? What does it feel like? Feels like pressure of worrying about like, damn, they might not like me because they thought I was or because what I said sounded stupid or mean or something. Yeah. Or dumb. Or, or, or, or, or, or because of what I said sounded stupid or mean or something. Yeah. Or dumb. Is it okay to not be liked? Yeah, it's fine. I mean, easy to say, but yeah, I mean, it is okay to not be liked. Do you believe that? Maybe. Maybe not. I Wow. That's a good question. Dr. K. I think that I don't worry about if people like me, but I don't like when people, is this really weird? No, stop. It's not weird. I don't care. Good. You're learning. I'm not trying to be everyone's best friend. Maybe, but I do care about if people dislike me Hmm. Because I always feel like I don't, I'm not, I, I feel like. Keep going, buddy. I feel like there's a way to not, there's a way where you don't need to dislike someone, whether it's just knowing them more or figuring out what a problem was or something. I don't know. So let me ask you a different question. Is it okay for you to be disliked? Yes. You sure? Yes. Yeah. I don't know. No. Maybe that, maybe I'm just being weird now. No, I'm not. Should I stop saying that? That's a bad hat, by the way. You can even ask my like viewers who are around me a lot. Like I always say, I'm so, like I say, I'm weird a lot and that's really bad. Probably. Okay. Anyways. Even you're judging the weirdness and you're calling it bad. Yep. It's going to, it's recursive. It'll go back until the end of time, which is okay. Just notice it. It's just how you are. It's not good or bad. That's just how you are. There are good things about it. There are bad things about it. We can talk about that in a second, but let's stick with this. Are you, are you okay being disliked? Um, yeah, I, I think, yeah. Even what I just said, yeah, I'll say like just the simple answer is yes. Definitely. Okay. Being disliked. Yeah. Okay. So I know that this is going to sound weird, but that makes perfect. I think both statements are true. So I think that like, so we tend to think about our mind as like a monolith. It's like one thing. Whereas really what we are is like our mind is actually like, it's like a party of NPCs who each do kind of whatever they want to. And our goal is to sort of get the NPCs to move in the same direction. And we want to like zone into this raid and like do the raid. And sometimes- Did you know I play World of Warcraft or something? Huh? Did you know I play World of Warcraft or something? I, sorry, I heard you make these things like, oh, okay. They're good analogies. I'm ready. I mean, I just use gaming analogies and like most of it tends to be MOBAs and RPGs because that's what I play. But- Oh yeah. Sorry. Keep it going. Yeah. So like, it's like, you know, you're, you're with this group of people and like, so I think that it's, it's weird, Jake, because there's a part of you who I think is genuinely confident, mature and resilient. And then there are also like nights at your round table that are concerned about dislike or concerned about getting old and are concerned about dying. Right? And that specter, which you judge yourself for, you judge yourself for like, oh shit, I thought we dealt with that. It's like, it's like zombie. It's like you killed it once and it's back again. And so you've got to be careful because I think like you're doing a very subtle thing where you're, even though that's the answer that pops up in your mind, your reluctance for that answer to be true allows you to ignore it. Can you say that last one more time? So like, like even though something pops up in your mind, your reluctance for it to be true pushes you to just ignore it. You're like, I don't want it to be true. I don't want to be afraid of death again. Whereas I would be surprised. Are you still living every day? And every day, I don't mean most days. I mean, are there days where you live where you're no longer thinking about if I die tomorrow, would I be happy? Are you starting to think about the future? Yeah, I don't live like that every day anymore. Definitely. Yep. And is there a correlation between not living that way and the resurgence of your anxiety? Yeah, I mean, I think so, but yeah, yep. I also want to like just say that something that I think has been a key that I've just realized in the timing of all this is I think streaming has changed a lot of how I live. It's actually changed how I live completely. Tell us about that. Well, when I first went to Japan, I went there to live for a year and come back right. And I just started to stream. I happened to stream. It was like a, I was like, I was like, I'm going to happen to stream. It was like a, I did it every day, but it wasn't, I wasn't there to stream. I just had the stream following me. And after, you know, six or eight months of like, damn, this stream has blown up and I need to really focus on this. It turned into this. This is like realization. I've thought of that. I think is a lot, but it's turned. It turned into me living my life in the stream, seeing what my life was to me living the stream and my life was just following. And I think that is for me the biggest trigger for this anxiety recently. And I might be wrong, but I really do think I know myself and I know the changes I like what changes in my life. And this was the craziest change I've ever had. And I'm not I mean, I'll just voice it. I'm always worried about saying that because I'm a little worried about the judgment from the viewers here. Like, Oh, do you just stream? Like you just make a bunch of money and all you do is go around and get drunk with, like, I understand that argument, but I always I'll just say that it's definitely something I always why I don't talk about it a lot, but it still was definitely a big change in my life. And once I, I realized that more so recently, if you know, it changed from the stream ball in my life to my life, just being the stream and my life kind of just trailing behind me. Yep. And, you know, I've tried to take slow steps and try and balance that back out to kind of live my life again. And that's like the LA was one move, although timing kind of sucks everything going on, you know, being around and trying to start my little healthy habits a little by little again. But yeah, a lot of my mental spaces, most of my mental space in the past couple years is just purely dedicated to stream like everything around being online and everything, which it wasn't always like that. So yeah, so I think that makes a lot of sense, Jake. So can I have a moment to collect my thoughts? Yep. Are you playing an ad right now? No. Okay, sorry. I didn't know if that was like an ad thing or something. I don't know. I mean, sometimes people run ads and I just, but I'm not, I'm working with pen and paper, bro. Okay. Okay. I'm going to need a minute. Okay. All right. Either this is going to, either I'm going to lose you guys completely, or this is going to be helpful. Almost there. Okay. Okay. Boy, it's going to be hard to find the words to say this. Okay. So I'm just going to start talking. Okay. I'm starting to worry. You're scared right now, but I'm ready. No, no, no. It's, I mean, the reason I'm, you know, I understand you're afraid, but what I'm saying is like, it's just like, I'm trying to, I feel like I've wrapped my head around something, but I don't know how to explain what I've wrapped my head around. Sounds like me every day. I'm ready. So the first thing that we're going to kind of start in the present, right? So there's, there is Jake and bake. And then there's Jake, and these are two different people. And it used to be that Jake was the one who is living life and Jake and bake was following along. And now what started to happen is like, you started to become more Jake and bake and less Jake. And over time, you know, so there's like the character and there's you, and I think you describe it really well that like, you used to just live your life. And that was like, Jake was the guy who woke up and said, I want to be able to die tomorrow with no regrets. That was never Jake and bake. In fact, the anxiety was the idea of you dying a thousand days in the future and like regretting that thousand days, which is different about there's a difference between like dying tomorrow and living a life that isn't good enough because you're going to go to hell. It's like a summation of your entire life. It becomes greater than today. Okay. So Jake and bake, I think then starts to like, the more you the more the steam grows, then you're like, oh, this is a thing, which is like, but remember that Jake grew out of a completely different thought process than like, this is a real thing. Now he didn't care if it was a real thing. He just did today. And once the stream becomes real, then you end up with new year's night where it's huge and it's great. And the next day, Jake didn't want to go out and stream. And Jake and bake said, you got to stream bro, because it's a real thing. And so like on that day, Jake and bake took over. Right. And he said like, Hey man, like, it's not about you anymore. It's about me. And, and so, right. So, and it was hard because when Jake and bake takes over, like Jake's not ready for it. And then you kind of stayed home and whatnot. So fine. So now like we get into it, another problem, which is that once Jake and bake takes over, there's a particular vulnerability that you have, which is that you've always been someone who is watching the reactions of other people. And so if you have a mind that watches the reactions of other people and can be self deprecating and can cause them to smile, that is like, that is just lighter fuel for Jake and bake. Right. Cause like you take a guy who's very tuned in to like not wanting to be disliked. And now we see the struggle because like at times Jake and bake speaks and Jake and bake says, yeah, I really don't want to be disliked. It's not okay for me to be disliked. It makes me deeply uncomfortable when I look at someone and I can't make them smile. But the funny thing is that Jake is there too. And Jake is like, I embrace discomfort and I challenged myself and I took the road less traveled and I survived and I can be confident in who I am. And there really are people that have disliked me in the past and I can be completely fine with that. But Jake and bake there is also there and he's kind of like looking at the judgments of, he's like watching the faces of other people. Like you see that, like you're confident you, but then Jake and bake is in the back and he's like watching the faces of other people. And it's like, Oh shit, that guy doesn't like me better pack a joke. So that's how you are. And then like Jake and bake is like, I'm not going to be in the back. So that's how you are. And then like Jake and bake sort of fucking feeds on that because it's fertile soil. And then it starts to get worse. Right? So like the Jake and bake sort of takes over on January 1st, 2019 and he takes over for just one day. And then on a given day, it's like Jake is piloting or Jake and bake is piloting. And depending on who's piloting, you feel anxiety or you don't feel anxiety. And then what happens is this is just the way that your brain works. You doing okay? Yeah, I'm good. I'm just good. So then what happens is like your anxiety programming turns on because that's just how our mind works. It's like when you see, you know, when you see a toilet, you have a certain automatic programming that kicks in based on the stimulus. Your mind is like, your brain is like, okay, we're in this situation again. Let's turn on all the switches that apply to the situation. Okay. And once anxiety starts, it's like, oh shit, we know this. We've done this before. Fear of death. Here we go. Right. And then it arises and then your fear of death like sort of starts to come back. And it's like, what the fuck? I dealt with this. And it's, it's like, yeah, you dealt with it, but your brain is like, oh, this applies. That's how it works. So our brain scans our environment, looks into the past and says, what have we learned about this situation? Let's assess it again. And I know it sounds really simple, but like, that's the way that you know how to function. Like you can't, you know, when you get a toothbrush, your brain doesn't say like, what is this strange device? You don't treat it as brand new. Your brain recalls what have I done with this thing before? What is everything that I know about a toothbrush? And let's like turn on that circuit for you again. And then you brush your teeth and you don't pay attention. So it's almost like your brain is reactivating your anxiety, right? And then you've got like, okay. And then like, maybe there's some stuff in here. I mean, maybe if you want to see a therapist, you can talk about this kind of shit, but you know, maybe there's some fear that you are getting older and that like that sort of giving you like, if you know, if we want to get super, like if you want to talk, if it's like the Sigmund Freud said, he would say that your, your decrease in vision is giving you a sense of your, your mortality and you are facing mortality once again. And the fear of death is returning, right? So you could say all that shit. I don't know if it's true or not. And then, and then the other thing is that once the anxiety starts, then you start becoming future oriented again, right? Then it, then it comes back to like, what if something's wrong? What if something is a little bit wrong with me? And then I ask you, well, what's the problem with that? And you say like, well, like the problem with that is that if something a little bit is wrong with me, like, let's be honest, Jake, you didn't say it, but we all know it is that that little something could be something bigger down the road. That's the fear, right? Is that it like could be cancer. Like maybe you've got a brain tumor. Like that's what you're afraid of in the completely irrational way. And if you go search on web MD, it gets worse. Yeah, that's exactly what I thought. By the way, I do want to like to say, maybe I might've said fear of death. I think the overall thing was I had really been hypochondria, which led to the fear of death. So yeah, same thing, same, same conclusion. Yeah. That's when you think you have cancer, that's hypochondria, right? So good, right? So like, that's what you've been thinking. And then if we think about it, like once you start thinking that this comes to the crux of it, and this is how I think you conquered your anxiety. Yep. Anxiety is concerned about what point in time, like when is anxiety concerned? Like what is it worried about? The past, the present or the future? Future. And when you start living your life in a way that you can die tomorrow, when are you concerned? What are you concerned with? Absolutely. Yeah. It's that simple. Yeah. Right. So when you start living in the today, like literally, as we talked about earlier, that there are some things that satisfy your anxiety and feed it, right? It's just like hunger. Like what happens when I, like if I take a three-year-old and the three-year-old is hungry and I give it food, does the three-year-old feel satisfied? Um. It's not a trick question. I think yes. Yes. And then what happens to the three-year-old that I feed? What does it become? Full of poop. Absolutely. And then over time they grow, right? Because if you feed something, it grows. And then what happens to the three-year-old's hunger a year later? It gets more, it eats a little more. Absolutely. Okay. Right. So like then what happens is the more that you start living in the future, if you search WebMD or if you do other things, like if you let yourself look at the reactions of others and cave to the reactions of others, then what happens is all you're doing is like feeding that thing, which then grows and grows and grows. And then you did something really, really amazing, which is that like you stopped feeding it, right? Cause you felt those anxieties when you woke up every day and you shifted your mindset. You can't convince me that you didn't feel that anxiety. You just turned away from it. You didn't satisfy it. And it probably felt very, very discomforting because you turned away from it and you were like, okay, I'm going to start to live in the present. And then you started to feel bliss and you're like, wow, that sounds super grandiose. No, but that's how it works. Like that's what yogis have been saying for thousands of years is that focusing on the present and freeing yourself from the attachment of the future. And cause that's what you're doing, right? You're saying like, I could die tomorrow. You were letting go of anything that could happen in the future. It could all be for naught, but you're going to do today the way that you want to do today. And that leads to bliss. That's the right word. Actually, it's not a grandiose term. Yeah, that's exactly how I felt. And then what happens is as you start living in the future, who lives in the future? Jake or Jake and bake? Probably Jake and big, but he has the reins right now. Absolutely. Right. And so then like the more that you live in the future, the more it becomes Jake and bake, the more it becomes, is my stream going uphill or is it going downhill? Do people like it or do people not like it? Then you start to think these thoughts and then the opinions of others and all that shit starts to roll in. And then your brain is like, oh shit, this is anxiety. Like, let's start being afraid of death again. Let's, oh, if we're thinking about the future, let's throw in a little bit of hypochondria because that's what we do when we think about the future. And you move further and further and further away from Jake. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah, that's cool. That's very, yeah. They still going? I'm listening. This is very on point right now. Yeah. I think that's like kind of the end of the cycle. Right. So, yeah. I mean, yeah, that's, it's, it's, it's cool to see how you kind of mapped it all out. This is something that the way you mapped it out, I mean, it's fairly well put into words. I've kind of had the feeling of like this exact exactly what you just said of like, I'm just not even like, so I live with my girlfriend right now and my best friend since I've like nine years old, like he's like my brother, like we talk through the year, like he helped me out when I'm struggling at that time in 19 helped out through some stuff and hit like we've been very back and forth on like empowering each other. But even like talking to him, I think the biggest thing I realize is like, I've just lost my, I say I'm lost in the sauce. Like when I joke around with him, like I'm kind of lost in the sauce. Like I'm just, I'm, I've just become a little bit away from who I really am because of streaming. So I've been trying to take these, like I said, these little steps to get back, but I really think, and maybe this is where the problem is, is like, I can't seem to like 100% commit. And I really think it's hard to do while maintaining a live stream. Like I don't want to go to, I don't know how deep we can go into live streaming, but like it just, it's such a, oh man, I'm thinking now about the judgment of people when you, when streamers talk about their jobs, it's always like, I know what chat thinks because I used to be chat, but like, many jobs across the board are always demanding all the time. Streaming is one of those that is like 24 seven mental demand. And I think that it's hard to find Jake while I stream as I do, because it's like, if I revert back and I don't know, like, or maybe it's a good thing. Maybe if I went fully back to Jake and start streaming, maybe my stream would be cool. I don't know, like, ah, but anyways, I just think it's very hard to pivot and make huge life changes while you are a live streamer because there's just like, So, so Jake, that's the problem. Just listen to the statement you're making. Okay. This, that statement is the problem. Your salvation never came through pivoting and making huge life changes. You never tried to pivot. You never said I'm going to turn around 180 degrees. What did you say to yourself? How did you turn around 180 degrees? I just change our mindset. And to what? Yeah. So you're not caring, just not caring, but to just living for right now. Absolutely. Right. You said, I don't care about 180 degrees. And even now you're saying, I don't know how to turn things around. Oh, right. You see it. You're saying, I don't know how to go back 180 degrees to what I used to be, but that's not how you got to where you used to be. You started by moving one degree. That's what you should focus on. And even now you say, Oh, if I become Jake again, I don't know if my stream will explode. There it is again. Still Jake and bake. That's Jake and bake hijacking J. And he says, yeah, Jake, like you be you buddy. Like I'm still going to take the reins, but let's, let's pretend that you're going to be in charge. It's still Jake and I'm still looking, I'm looking at the sign. I'm about to fucking knee it in half. Do you see this thing? Sorry. It's like, yeah, there's a sign above my head. Yeah. This is weird. It's hovering. Always hovering. My God. Okay. Anyways, sorry. Good. No, it's good. It's a very bad work. I'm not actually going to break it. It's very memorable. It's cool. Yeah. Right. So, so that's Jake. Jake is the one who can recognize that that sign is your curse and is something to be appreciated. That your streaming career is awesome and, and like great. And that you enjoy it and it's a lot of fun. And it's like, like you're lucky and it's a burden. It's like having a kid. It's like, yeah, it's an enjoyable and fulfilling and awesome. Do you have kids? No. Okay. Not a, not a true boomer. Not a true boomer. Okay. Pseudo boomer. Yeah, sure. Pseudo boomer is good. And, and so like the thing about kids is like, sure. It's awesome and fulfilling, but it's also fucking exhausting and sucks sometimes. Yep. Yep. Right. It's like, sometimes I want to like sit out, like sometimes I want to play video games until four in the morning and then like sleep until noon. But the thing is your kid wakes up when they wake up and like, they don't, you can't hit a snooze button. And they like, literally what happened today was actually like super cute and I loved her, but she like came and like, I wanted to sleep because our alarm went off at five in the morning. And then, and then she like picked up my hat. Like I was like sleeping and then she was like trying to wake me up. And then she like picked up my head and like looked at in the face and then she kissed me on the face. And then she laid down on my pillow so that I couldn't even lay down on the pillow. And then I put my head, it was really, actually really cute. It's like very nice, but it was also like, I'm still tired today. Yeah. And that's what Jake and bake live is Jake and bake like demands your attention and needs. It's like a hungry, hungry child. And you can appreciate it, but also be like, man, you know, you got to like lay off from time to time and you need to break. Yeah. But so let me ask you a question. So like, where do you think you go from here? Like, how do we, how do we help you? How do you help yourself? Yeah. I mean, I've, like I said, I've been, I've been like trying to work towards the little things I know that I really enjoyed doing that really made me feel like I was kind of a little productive. I felt like I was just purpose every day had purpose, like, you know, so little things like I used to work, like just a little workout or a little yoga is every morning. Just like, I've been trying to take a little bit more personal time from stream and like off time. And these are like all little baby steps. And I think what's important is I've, I've kind of like recognized and it's the way you're putting the words is great because it's like even easier to kind of see, but I've kind of recognized these things and I just, I kind of know how to fix them. It's just, I've been taking baby steps and like, I'm not seeing results fast enough. And then like, you know, not seeing results fast enough. Is that Jake or Jake and bake? That might be, that might actually just be a Jake thing of me just thinking like, wow, you did this before. You know exactly what it feels like and what it feels like when you have good days where like, there's some days where like, if I don't stream for two days, I'm actually with my friends. We're just, let's say we went on a hike the day before and I didn't go on the computer. I actually, like I'll wake up and I'll feel like crisp and I'll be like, holy shit. Like I've had a few of those days where I'm just wake up and like, dude, like, and those are, those are reassuring days. It's like, dude, like you can, it's just going to take a little time, some effort. You can do this. Like those are my reassuring days, but anyway, sorry. Okay. Yeah. So, so, so I want to just point that out, right? So like, just, just pay attention to this thought and look at this thought. Okay. I'm not getting better fast enough and it's going to take some time. Okay. Those are like contrary to me. I think one is Jake and bake and one is Jake. And you say that the days that you're crisp, you say it's going to take, it's going to take some time. And on other days you say it's not happening fast enough. Those are two different people holding the reins. I really don't think that that's the same person. I'm not bipolar. No, you're not. This is normal buddy. This is how everyone is. Okay. So like, just, just let's think about this scientifically for a second. So first of all, I do think that, you know, a lot of this stuff, I can't put the piece, you give me the pieces of the puzzle. I just put them together. Like you, you're the one who's giving me this. So you know, this on some level, second thing. Oh yeah. Second thing is that you're not weird. Like the reason that I'm able to do this is because you're like other people, right? Like that's the only way that I could do this. It's not like I'm discovering something brand new for the first time. It's like, this is how people work. Like this is how anxiety works. Anxiety literally cannot exist in the past and cannot exist in the present. It must exist in the future. And if your mind is in the present, you cannot be experiencing anxiety. This is why video games are so fucking addictive because when you're raging at your teammate in law, you're not thinking about how, sorry. Yeah. Leagues for kids, by the way. I don't know if you know that. Hey, don't get me started, bro. A lot of people on my stream likely get up. I'm a Dota. I'm a big fan of Dota. Oh, I am. And a culture. All right. Sorry. Let's go boomers. Boomers and boomers of the world unite. Yeah. Imagine playing a kid's game. I played the actually like for the first time a couple of weeks ago. It's actually kind of fun. I think it's just a different game. It's like apples and oranges. I think it's like one of these everyone can get kind of hoity toity about what their own personal preferences are. Right. You can think that your personal preferences make you greater than another human being, but it's more like apples and pre-sliced packaged apples. That's the difference. So you play Dota? Yeah. Interesting. What else do you play? I don't play a lot, but I right now play a lot of Valorant. Sorry. I totally got sidetracked. Sorry. You're really making profound statements. No, no, no, no. It's good. How's Valorant? I just get triggered by League. Valorant's great. I mean, I like CS for a long time, so it's fun. Just like Counter-Strike with a little cherry on top with all the abilities, but it's good. Cool. Yeah. Anyway, so just thinking, so I think you're not like that weird or anything, Jake. Don't worry about it, man. I think a lot of what your thoughts are actually quite logical, even though if they don't feel, the only reason they seem illogical is because we don't understand where they're coming from. Even your fear of death returning. It's like actually kind of makes sense. It doesn't make sense from within the mind, but once you understand how the mind works, it's just your mind is like, oh, we've been here before. Let's turn on our programming. Yeah. And, and you know, yeah, so small doses of living in the present. Like any other thoughts about how you move forward from here? I have a couple of suggestions, but I'm curious what you think. Well, I don't know. I honestly, I really thought, and I still think that my move back to LA was huge, being around friends and family and kind of like being able to at least have somewhat, sometimes like just normal life stuff going on. However, just like on the timing, I know it's just really bad. Like I, you know, just unable to go outside and like hard to see it. It's just, it's just out of my control. And I don't, I just not going to worry about that. I'm just letting the time go on and like until things kind of stabilize. But that was one thing I thought was a huge step was kind of being back home and a little life, little lifestyle things that I do. I mean, sounds kind of weird, but I recently bought a car. I like driving. I haven't driven years. I lived abroad and just driving my car on the highway makes me feel like human again. Sounds kind of weird, but like I love that feeling. And like I didn't do that for years and little things like that. I think are, are really good actually. Yeah. So, so I think those are awesome. A couple of other things to just think about. And if that's sufficient, I mean, that may work. All right. I think it really will work. Just a couple cherries on top. Let's call them. So the first thing is I think a lot of people have this idea that doing something the second time should be easier than doing it the first time. In my experience, that's actually not true. Like getting up and working out one day is easier than getting up and working out the next day. Right. So like, don't judge yourself for being quote unquote back to square one, because I actually think that, you know, cause you're kind of saying like, okay, this is the formula that worked for the first time. Therefore let me implement it again. And it should work for the second time. I think what you're dealing with is actually different. The resurgence of the problem is a different thing. The third time is easier than the second time, but like, I don't know how to say this. It's just like, you know, overcoming something once is different from overcoming it the second time or re overcoming it. But third time is also re overcoming it. I don't know if that makes sense. Um, you mean like the first, if you did it the first time, the second time is might be different and more difficult, but the third time, because maybe you've done it, you've done it this way and you've done it this way. Maybe now you understand. Yeah. So doing something the first time, doing something once is separate from doing something again. I think those are actually different skills. Sure. Okay. And, but the thing is doing something again is its own skills. So therefore third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth times are doing something again. So I'll give you just an example. Okay. I got it. So like, I'll like, actually, I should have started with this. So I, in my day job, I'm an addiction psychiatrist. Okay. So like, let me put it this way. When someone gets sober for the first time, it's awesome. If they relapse getting sober again is actually harder. Got it. Okay. Because they, you know, they got sober first and then they were like, yeah, man, I did it. And then there's this whole other layer of shame and difficulty if they come crashing down. Got it. Right. Cause like building something for the first time is different from like cleaning out the rubble of like failing and then trying to do it again. But then the third, fourth, fifth time that they relapse, they actually start to get better at it. But that first relapse is a whole different ball game from like the first time you become sober. Does that make sense? Yes. Right. So like getting sober the first time and relapsing, relapsing is a whole different ball game than like doing something first. So, so I would give yourself a little bit of slack and like cut yourself a break if it does take longer than it's supposed to, because it's not the same thing. Right. Like, like overcoming something when you were 19 was different from being a streamer and having this artificial pressure of the stream, taking advantage of your, your personality of being very tuned into what people think and becoming uncomfortable with their dislike. Like, do you see how like that's the way you've always been, but being a streamer just fucking puts that shit on steroids. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So it's, it's not like you're not 19 anymore, man. And like, I don't mean that in a good way. I like, you know, it's like, it's like, it's a whole different ball game that you're in. You're in the big leagues now. So your anxiety is going to have different things to feed on. And so it's not, it's going to take, it may take longer. The next thing is that I would, I think it would really help you to be present in the tension. So in the past, you used to be present in your progress, but the question is, can you be present in not progressing? And like, I don't even know if that makes sense, but like, if you can just even acknowledge that, like, okay, today is a day that I can't move one degree. And if you can sit with that and then like, because the thing is, when you don't move a single degree, what our mind tends to do is move into the future. And you think about the consequences of failure today, right? But there's a funny way that you can actually disarm all of this shit is if you can sit with your failure today and not projected into the future. And it's kind of saying that's kind of like what I'm doing with the fact that there's a virus going on and like, I'm in LA, like I can't control. I'm just kind of letting it. Great. Perfect. I think that's, that's because you're kind of saying like, oh, I'm stuck and I'm not like, I came here to do this and it's not happening. Is that what you mean? Yeah, but I'm very real about it. Like, I'm just like, it's out of my control. Like I gotta let that kind of play out and then I can. Beautiful. Right. So I have to let that play out is not like you trying to plan for the exits, right? So if your anxiety was active, if Jake and make was active, what you would be doing is looking for the exits and looking for the bathrooms, planning for eventualities. But what's happening, Jake is like, nothing I can do, bro. Yeah. Just gotta let it play out. And then when things calm down, I'll figure out what I'm going to do. And Jake and I don't say bro, but yeah, I got it. Yeah. I say bro. Yeah. Yeah. My biggest concern is that it's not inclusive to certain portions of our audience, but I sort of use it in a gender neutral way, which may make me misogynistic in and of itself. I don't know. Oh yeah. Well, it's the internet. So you're everything. Yeah. So, so like, you know, I I'd say that even if you can sit with the tension of not moving forward and be in the present of not advancing that in a weird way can pull the plug out from your anxiety. Does that make sense? Like you don't have to be progressing to be in the present. The key thing is to be in the present. You don't have to be taking those baby steps. Even if you sit with the failure of not being able to take a baby step today, it'll actually still do the same thing. Got it. Okay. And the last thing is sometimes I teach people how to meditate so I can teach. Do you meditate? No, when I was 19, that's one of the things I tried and I actually got to a point where I shared this yesterday on stream. So I, there's like one song that triggers my favorite song. It's like my favorite relaxation song. And there was a point where I was like, I'll just practice meditation YouTube techniques. And that one thing I was like super spiritual and meditating his name was junior. And he kind of like taught me a little bit. And there's one point I could meditate. So if that I hadn't headphones in with the music and I could tune out the music was gone and like, it was really cool actually. But I know I do not meditate, but I thought I'd share with you because I think that you do meditate. I think I've seen on streams. No. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm sorry. You do meditate. Yeah, sure. Yeah. So like, I wanted to share that with you because I thought that was super, that was actually really cool. And that's like, yeah, a lot of people don't believe in meditation, but I thought it was really cool that it's real. Yeah. Yeah. No, I do not. Do you want to learn today? I mean, maybe. Yeah. I mean, I'm open for everything. I'm open. I'm an open minded person. I'm ready for anything. I think except for the things. So, okay. I was going to say a joke, but because I don't need to do that. I'll say I'm open for anything except for butt stuff. Like that's a joke I was going to say, but like it's, I don't know if this is the right context. Sorry. It's like streaming is like just in there. It's just Jake and big talking. Okay. He's just trying to make a joke and having people. Yeah. So that's what I'm saying is like, let him talk, but just be aware who's talking. Right? So like, let him out from time to time. All right. He needs his exercise for that. No, it's fine. I think Jake's Jake's been operating long enough. Jake and Baker, Jake and Baker deserves a run on the, on the track. You know, you got to let them exercise and come out there from time to time. But yeah. Yeah. So, so you said maybe, and you said you're up for anything. So I'm not quite sure. Yes. Okay. Yes, I would. All right. So I'll teach you a meditation technique and, and you know, what I would tell you is that the goal of is people ask me, how often should I meditate? And then I say, you know, three to five minutes to start off with three to five times a week. But in your case, the answer is going to be today. Okay. Right. So like, be careful about setting a schedule for yourself in terms of meditation. If you do yoga, that's really good. So you have, yeah. So the last thing is that you, you know, maybe worth your while to see a therapist or mental health professional. If this stuff continues or starts to impair your function. Okay. Right. So like, I'm sure that someone somewhere could diagnose you with an anxiety disorder because people like diagnosing people with things. But that's not something I'm not, I'm not telling you, you have this. It's just like, you need a more thorough evaluation. And they'll ask you a lot of questions that I didn't ask you. Like, for example, you know, does anyone in your family have anxiety and like, you know, how long did it last and all this kind of good stuff. So, you know, having to find the exits, by the way, is something called agoraphobia. So that, that sense of, of like needing to escape and needing safety and being assured of like safety is like oftentimes, or is one manifestation of something called agoraphobia, which sometimes also people call is like fear of going outside. So they stay at home because they're afraid of like, what could happen if they leave the house. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, you know, I'd say that if it really starts to affect you, I'd really strongly consider seeing a mental health professional and see if you actually, you know, do fit criteria for an anxiety disorder. And there are treatments for that treatments for anxiety disorders include like psychotherapy, like talk therapy, exposure therapy, which is when you kind of like expose yourself to whatever, you know, induces the anxiety and medication. Yeah. Yeah. So let's meditate. Let me just think. I want to see anything else. Any questions for me? Uh, no. Okay. Not really. I mean, yeah. So something else for you to just chew on. So, you know, sometimes I talk about karma, karma and, and, you know, you don't have to believe this. It's just, I find it fascinating that like, you know, I think that your initial bout of anxiety was part of your, the way I see that I'm not saying it's true. It's just the way that I conceptualize people. I think I look through them through the lens of karma. And the really interesting thing is that without your fear of death, I don't think you would have become the person that you are today. So I see a strong karmic influence there that essentially like, you know, that was a pretty big event that altered the course of your life. And if you feel so inclined to indulge in this kind of irrational thinking, then I would encourage you to think a little bit about your current challenge and whether that's also life signaling you to like take, take stock of where you are right now and don't just act on auto because that's essentially what your fear of death did for you back then. Is it like kind of woke you up and helped you recalibrate and put you on a path that it sounds like has been very enriching for you as well as like people who watched you. Yep. So just something to toss out and think about if you, if you want to. I appreciate it. Yeah. Okay. So any thoughts about that? I, I mean, I've, I think I've thought something similar, just like, is everything I'm doing right now, the, not the word isn't right, but it's like, is there something that is like, I don't know, like deeper that is just not, not correct right now. Like is there, yeah, I've thought about that. Yeah. Yeah. So I encourage you to continue thinking about it. You know, I, I don't know. So, so being sort of a scientist by background, like it's kind of interesting because I don't know if that's true, but if you look at things from a data perspective, just because it's true, doesn't mean that it doesn't have utility. Right. So like there's good evidence that re rethinking your life through like a broader perspective has utility and positive outcomes, even if it's not true. Anyway, so, so I'm glad you're thinking about it and encourage you to continue thinking about it, maybe meditating on it, exploring it, talking with your friends and your brother and girlfriend and stuff like that, going for long drives and mulling it over. It's a good one. Yeah. Going for hikes, things like that. Yeah. Love it. Okay. So let's meditate. So sit up straight and I'm going to teach you practice that we do relatively often on stream, but I'll just, you know, do it again because we haven't taught it in a little while. And it's actually a really, really good practice for anxiety. And part of the reason it's a good practice for anxiety is because when your mind becomes anxious, you actually activate like your adrenaline system and your like danger neuro circuitry. So you start to feel like you're in danger and your heart starts beating fast. You start getting sweaty, your stomach feels a lot to me. Yep. So this, this technique in some, so it's a weird amount of scientific support. So it has some very basic scientific support and has clinical support, but the middle part, we don't really know to be true, which is weird, but basically what this technique does is shuts off your sympathetic nervous system and reactivates your parasympathetic nervous system. So it shuts off your adrenaline and like, kind of like calms you down and like activates your vagus nerve. Vagus nerve is what slows down your heart. Adrenaline pumps up your heart. There's a vagus nerve here. If you hit it, you don't have to have a vagus nerve here. If you hit it, you knock you out. I like it in like there. Okay. Sorry. Vagus nerve actually runs kind of along your throat, but okay. Anyways, okay. People get, yeah, I mean, it's, it is over there, but it's like deeper. It's not like near the surface of your neck. Okay. Well, I am feeling a little nervous here now, so I'm really curious. Great. So is it your nose clogged? Just one nostril, but it's fine. I can breathe with my nose. Okay. So blow it. Let me see. Yeah. Okay. So one of your nostrils is going to be more closed than the other. Do you have a deviated septum? You don't know the doctor for that. I know what that is. Never been to the doctor for it. Okay. Is the same nostril always closed for you? No, but I should keep an eye on that. I've never kept night. All right. Wait. Yeah. It's my left one. So, okay. Good. So I'm gonna remember that. Okay. So if you're curious about that, we can have another conversation about sweat. So what does the rhythm of your nostrils opening and closing, but can you do this? Just fold down. Yep. Great. So I want you to take your thumb and block your right nostril. Yep. And then breathe in through your left. And then block this switch and breathe out. Breathe in through the right nostril again. And when you have a full breath of air, switch and breathe them up. Breathe in through the same. Breathe in through the same. Switch and breathe out. In. Switch. Out. So, I'll keep talking, but go ahead and close your eyes. Breathe in. Switch. Out. In. Switch. Out. It's okay to yawn. It's okay to yawn if you need to. In. Switch. Out. And now continue at your own pace. Remember to switch. Good. So then in. Switch on a full breath. We'll practice for about 60 to 90 seconds. So, go ahead and finish the round that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. Let your hands relax when you're done with the round. And just sit and enjoy. you I woke me up. I was sleeping. Hi. Do you want to meditate? What do you want to do? I know. I was telling a story about you earlier. It's okay. I'll bring her in a minute. Okay, come here. Okay. Am I still meditating? Huh? Am I still meditating? I don't know. Are you? You tell me. What was that like for you? It was okay. I could feel my heart and I was and actually when I felt my heart, I was going to stop and say, am I supposed to hear my heart beating? But then I turned that potential negative thought into a positive thought. And instead I embraced my heartbeat and I wanted to feel the rhythm and think about what it's beating and where all the blood's going. That's what I did actually in my head right now. Cool. Sounds great, man. I hope so. Was it was it a pleasant experience? Yeah, it was. I mean, it's not like I flew or something, but it was for me, the biggest thing about meditating was always that you have a sense of control over your body that you usually don't have and that yeah, that's maybe that and like you can kind of feel yourself and I don't really do that really, but yeah, it was definitely it was positive. So as you were paying attention to your heart, were you thinking thoughts or were you just feeling things? There was a lot of, but then I started to just try to at the very end, they try to just focus on the beat and I try to just envision it kind of spreading the right. So as you would whatever you're envisioned is great. Yeah, yeah, yeah. As you envision it and you focus on it, what happens to your thoughts? They weren't there anymore. Yeah, it wasn't. Yeah, it was. Yeah, they weren't there. Yeah, so I think that's the point, right? Is to free yourself from the thoughts. Be quiet so that daddy can teach. No, you want attention. This is what we call attention seeking behavior. Any any so Jake, you know, I hate. Hey, thank you. I know you're silly. She wants to be a streamer, I guess. He's performing for someone. Okay, so Jake, one any questions for me before we wrap up because I think I'm gonna have to go because she's Hey, you want to get out of here? Are you going to stay? I don't I don't know if I have any questions right now. I mean, I was, it was kind of it's nice to hear. You know how you kind of portray things and it's things that I kind of knew but maybe I just kind of was looking at them through like it was a little fuzzy still looking at my picture what I think is going on. Yeah, I think you think you helped paint the picture a little bit better. For me, I think I'm always someone that like I said before is very strong willed and I it's not it's not going to be the same but I really think that the knowledge and understanding of what's causing things is is the first is like for me like a huge step and then after that is really just not not worrying about it taking short or long time like it did the first time and comparing it but just kind of just you know using that knowledge to I don't know float out of things as it's supposed to happen day by day instead of worrying about you know when beautifully put man but I think you know I agree with you that like understanding what's going on is the first step and and one of the things that I say on stream pretty often is good diagnosis precedes good treatment and until you know what's going on you can't really fix anything. All right so thank you very much man it was great having you and good luck with everything. Thank you I gotta ask you someone said that you speak Chinese I want to hear it. What do you want to say like I'm just I'm thinking of the word. Where she. The Joe's Texas I could be saying okay okay nice yeah nice that's so cool actually I just think that's so cool that was back in 2005 so it's been 15 years. I don't know how to say order food like I know how to say. Did you ever travel to China? No I've never been to China I've been to Japan like three or four times but never to China. I just had to ask that yeah cool man all right well uh yeah thank you so much for having me and talking it was nice talking to someone who I think knows what they're talking about and yeah I don't just is this the end sure oh okay so maybe we'll play dota sometime I'm gonna message you my steam id yeah absolutely and then and then maybe you can help me with my mandarin and I also speak a little bit of Japanese so I'm rusty on that too yeah I'm gonna get you on it I'm gonna get you in on a dota game with admiral bulldog you know who that is yes I do know who admiral bulldog is yeah I'm gonna we're gonna get you in on a bulldog game we'll do that for sure all right sounds good take care thank you okay bye