 Natalia. Okay. Yeah. Great. So Natalia, tell me a little bit about how you're doing today and what we're talking about. Okay. I'm super nervous because I'm probably gonna cry because I cry a lot. So I'm gonna try not to cry. Me too, recently. Yeah. Yeah. I cry a lot. I cry really. Thinking about crying is making me cry. So it's gonna be tears. Is it okay to cry? Yeah, I cry all the time. So yeah, I'm not embarrassed of crying anymore, I guess. Okay. But yeah, I've just been having like a really difficult time lately. And I think I wanted to talk about mainly like two things that maybe overlap a little bit. Sure. Okay. So the first part is I'm bipolar. Okay. I've been diagnosed for about four years. Okay. But I've struggled with like mental health issues my whole life. Okay. I had an eating disorder when I was 14. Okay. And I got was 50 kilos before. And by the time I was 16, I was 23. So yeah, it was pretty rough. I nearly died. And I recovered from that at about 16. And then I was bulimic from 16 till about 22. No, till about like, that's not true. Till, okay, I was like a type of bulimia. I don't really want to talk about it. But I was one type of bulimia until 22. And then from 22 to like 25, I was a different type of bulimic. And then in 2017, that's 2016. That's when I diagnosed bipolar. And when I started my medication, my bulimia actually went away. Okay. Yeah. So it sounds like you're you have treatment providers right now that you're connected with and? Yeah, um, I've been on remission. Like I saw my psychiatrist for like a whole year. Okay. She's the one that diagnosed me bipolar. And I am. She put me on remission after a year because I was pretty stable. I take Lamotrigine. Take 100 milligrams a day. Okay. So yeah, I have a like, I think it's type two. So I cycle really quickly. Really, really, really, really, really quickly. I sometimes have two hypomanic episodes within a month, and then two depressive episodes within a month. My medication has been really good at like keeping my depression to like just a few days. So I can manage that way. But my issue mostly is with my hypomania, because I become very impulsive. And sometimes I like become a little like mean, which is so not me. Okay. And I sometimes like, I wouldn't say I become like aggressive, but I become like, it's nice, snippy. Like I say things that I don't mean saying to people. And I do like very, like abrupt things that I don't think about doing. Does that make sense? Sure. I have like really racing thoughts. And sometimes it feels like, like, especially when I'm asleep at night, it feels like my body is asleep, but my mind isn't asleep. Like, it feels like my mind is just like racing all the time. So that's like my main issue right now is like, dealing with the consequences of the things that I do when I'm hypomanic. I start a lot of things that I don't finish, and I start a lot of projects that then I don't want to do. And so like, that causes some issues. And then the interplay of that within my stream, and like, internet culture in general. So that's kind of what I'm struggling right now. Like, I think that my bipolar, I have it under control, but the stress of my job is making it really difficult to handle. Okay. So thank you so much for sharing all that, Natalia. So let me just start by offering kind of a couple of perspectives. So the first thing is, you know, I think we, a lot of people have been asking important questions about whether what we do on stream is therapy or not therapy or mental health treatment. So I just want to make it clear. So you have providers, so I'm not going to comment on the management of your bipolar disorder, whether you have bipolar disorder, things like that. That I think is about, you know, that's medical. And I'm glad that you have people with that, that can help you with that. I think what I would like to talk to you about is, I think this is actually a perfect example of how I still think I can help you, because I think there could be stuff going on here that is actually not bipolar disorder. Okay. So if we think about like, like, so what I really try to do here on stream is help people understand how their mind works. And what I'm hearing from you is that sometimes your mind acts impulsively, that you exhibit means behaviors. And in my experience, I think that meanness and impulsivity don't have to come from bipolar disorder. Does that make sense? But I am so not like that sometimes. Yep. I understand that there are fluctuations within your mood. I'm not blaming you for it. But what I'm saying is that adjusting your medication may not be the only way to improve that. Because all of us are mean or impulsive at times. And there may be something going on with bipolar disorder that makes you act more mean or impulsive. But it's a dangerous assumption to assume that that is just bipolar. And in my experience, if you think about regulating your impulses or understanding where meanness comes from, that's something that all human beings can do and improve those things. And just because you're bipolar doesn't mean you can't do those things too. It just means that those things may be harder for you to do if you have bipolar. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, I understand that. But the thing is, what I'm mostly struggling right now, and I think that I've been able to grow and change a lot to get to a point with I do yoga and I meditate. Awesome. And I'm becoming like a very spiritual person. Cool. And it's helped me a lot to deal with that. But my biggest issue is with this eight years of recordings that exist on the internet of my past and the past experiences that I've had, and people judging me every day by those things. Okay, so let's talk that sounds like it's really, really hard to deal with, because most human beings get to make mistakes. Right? And they get to make mistakes, and they get to learn. But when you have eight years of recordings of your mistakes, sometimes you're not allowed to make mistakes in the same way, or you never get to like really move past them. Is that is that kind of what's going on with you is? Yeah, it feels like I get to make the mistakes every single day, again and again and again and again. What does that mean? Can you help me understand? Well, because people comment on them all the time. So I have to like relive them. So sometimes it feels like every single day I'm reliving all those moments. Okay, so it sounds like you're not really they're not letting you move past it. And you're kind of being reminded every day of the mistakes that you've made. Yeah. What's that like? It's horrible. It's horrible because I'm trying to grow and be better. But it feels like I can't move on. That's how it feels. Yeah. I mean, it sounds like you can't move on because people keep on reminding you and bringing you back there. I mean, I can't imagine. I mean, I really don't think that that's like something you're doing wrong. It sounds like, you know, if I have... So sometimes I deal with people who've suffered from abuse. And I remember, I mean, I've heard this story like a thousand times about a kid who comes home and they've got a bad grade on a report card and like one of their parents starts yelling at them or hitting them. The next day they come home and they hear the same thing. Like the report card, like they have the bad grade and every day they're just reminded of it over and over and over and over again. Yeah. And even if the kid is studying more, it doesn't matter if they're studying harder or working harder or they're being more... If they've actually made steps to improve, like the parent just keeps on beating the crap out of them. Sounds like that's what you're going through. Yeah. And like generally I've been good at dealing with it. I mean, I've been dealing with this for two years now. Where literally every stream, half the messages I get are about that. Where every single Instagram I post, half the messages are about that. Where every single tweet I post, 90% of the messages are horrible, hateful things. I get messages every day from people telling me to kill myself, that I'm a whore, that I'm the worst thing that's ever happened to Twitch. And like, it's not just one, it's not just two, it's thousands and thousands every single day. And like, sometimes I'm good, sometimes I can handle it, but then some other times I can't, you know? So, Natalia, I'm really kind of shocked by that. And I'm really kind of wondering, like, where does all that hatred come from? Like, do you have, like, why do they hate you so much? Like, I find it hard to believe that unless you're committing genocide, that, you know, you are deserving of thousands of people just, you know. I don't know. Sometimes I feel like if I was, like, in prison, it would be easier. What would be easier about prison? That at least in prison, it'd be like, I'm getting to pay for my mistakes in a way in which I can move on and get better and work on myself. But it feels right now that I'm, like, in hell, you know? Where, like, every single day for the rest of my life, I'm gonna have to deal with that. And like, it feels like my only option is to just get off social media completely. But the problem is, I haven't done anything else with my life. I haven't done anything else with my life. Like, I quit college for Twitch. And so, like, I would have to let my house go. I would have to let my pets go, you know? Like, it's just not an option for me to, like, go do something else. You sound like you're stuck. Yeah. It's also shocking to hear, you know, someone say something like, I almost wish I could be in prison, because it sounds like if there was something, what I'm hearing from you is if there was something you could do to show the people who hate you that you're trying to atone or you're paying your price or whatever, then you would do it. But what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, if they're telling you to kill yourself, like, there's really nothing you can do to, like, appease them, right? It's like, there's no, it's impossible. Like, what are they looking for from you? I can't imagine what would actually satisfy them. Well, I could kill myself. And I've thought about it so many days, so many times. So I already had a plan on how I was gonna do it. Okay. Are you know, are your providers aware of that? No. Okay. Can we talk for a second about that? Mm hmm. What keeps you from sharing that with them? I haven't really seen my psychiatrist since like 2017. Okay. So maybe give them a call and kind of let them know what you're going through. Because I know as a psychiatrist, one of the things the most difficult thing about my job is when I'm there to help someone and they don't let me know that they need help. And so if you're going through this stuff, I would strongly, strongly recommend that you reach out to your psychiatrist and kind of let them know that something is going on. It doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to change your medication or anything like that. I mean, I'm not going to be able to do it because my friends literally, like, they chase me around everywhere. Like, my friends don't let me be alone. Because they know. No, no, you're talking about you're not going to be able to kill yourself? Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm not, I'm not like, I'm not left alone ever. Okay. So that's reassuring. And also whether you're left alone or not, I think is actually like besides the point, because the point here is that you're suffering. And there may be things that people can do for you or that you can do for yourself to suffer less. And I'm not talking about winning over the hateful people. What I'm talking about is you said you're becoming more spiritual. So like, in a weird way, I think this is a conversation about meanness, hatred, purpose. How do you find a way to move forward? How do you deal with the hate of other people? Because like, there's something that sounds to me, I just don't think I can do it anymore. I don't think I can handle with the hate anymore. Yeah, so that makes sense to me that you can't do that. Because I'm actually shocked that you've been able to do it this long. Like, this sounds insane to me. Like, how have you been able to do it this long? I don't know. I guess I've been really strong for a very long time. And then, like, I just hit a point where so many things happened, like one after the other. And then I just, I don't know. Okay. Yeah, so what I'm asking you to do is lean on the people whose job it is to help you through this kind of thing. So I'm not saying that like, reaching out to your psychiatrist is separate from your friends not letting you be alone. Like, the point here is like, if they're not going to let you kill yourself, that's great. That's wonderful. That's awesome. And at the same time, it is by belief that you don't have to feel this way. At least this much. I understand that. Yeah, anymore. And that there are going to be people around, myself included, who can try to help you understand, you know, how to think about yourself, how to move forward. And I think one of the important people in your life is going to be your psychiatrist, and just let them know what's going on. Okay, and probably go see them. Because it's so hard to explain to anybody what I'm dealing with that doesn't know Twitch and doesn't know social media. Yeah, so so that's it. You're spot on. It is very hard to explain it. But yeah, this is this is where my psychiatrist just like, I don't know, like 50 years old, like, how do I explain to her why this is affecting me so much? So here's the thing, you got to give him a chance to understand. Okay, and here's the thing. So and Natalia, I think this is really important. If you can think about other people in this moment, I know this is going to sound bizarre, but I think the world would be a better place. The world would be a better place if you told your psychiatrist. Now, why is that? It's because 50 year old psychiatrists are going to practice for another 20 years. And unless people like you try to explain it to them, they're not going to get it. And if they get it, think about how much more they would be able to help all of the other patients that they're seeing. You think you're the only person and in this person's practice that's dealing with hate from social media, your hate may be way worse than everyone else's. But I can guarantee you because I'm a fucking psychiatrist and people come into my office, social media is tearing everyone apart. And so in a weird way, if you can, I think it's almost like if you can afford, if you have any bandwidth left to try to make the world a better place, which I don't blame you for if you don't, because it sounds like you're running on empty, talk to your mental health provider and try to explain that with them. And if they don't understand, they don't understand. And then maybe you try to get a referral for a therapist who's younger or something like that. And I'm happy to help you try to problem solve about trying to find you good help with your psychiatrist and things like that if you need help. But I would strongly encourage that you know you because you just it's not fair for you to deal with this shit because it sounds like you're dealing with the shit alone too. Like who supports you during this time? Like for the past two years, like who do you have in your corner? Yeah, not a lot of people. I have two like really close friends and that's pretty much it. Yeah, I have a really good community. Like, I have a lot of people that love me, you know, like I have a pretty strong community that like shares a lot of love. So that does help. And I love streaming. I love sharing my life and my love for life with people. But and like this whole time, I was just telling myself that if I hold on for a little longer, things will get better. So that's a good thought to have. And what I would like to help you do today, Natalia, is not hold on until things get better, but let's try to think about how we can make them better. Okay, right? So there are going to be fluctuations over time, which is completely normal. But if you're getting a lot of hate from the internet, how can we think about what's that what that's doing to your mind? How can we think about, you know, meanness and how to deal with hatred and stress? What do you think about that? Is that a useful use? Like, what do you want to talk about today? Yeah, like generally, and you mentioned like, how, how have I been able to cope for so long with this? And I'll explain to you how I was able to cope with it for so long. Sure. Number one, and I think this is the main way that I was able to cope with things was to tell myself that the person that people were hating on was not me, but the idea of who they thought I was. Sure. So I was able to like separate myself from the hate in a way in which they're not hating me, but this idea of who they think I am, which is not who I am because of these people knew me, I assure you 100%, they wouldn't hate me, or they wouldn't hate me as much. I mean, there's a possibility that they would dislike me, but not to the point where like being obsessed with me and like messaging me every single day nonstop. Like I just, these people have to be sick. Like you have to be sick in order to get pleasure of telling a person to kill themselves every day. You know what I mean? Yeah. How do you understand why they hate you so much? They're just angry. Angry at who? At themselves. What are they angry at themselves about? Oh, I feel like they must have a lot of, like for you to, there's a saying that says hurt people hurt, and I kind of put them in that category because I have things I dislike, you know, but I don't go out of my way to focus my entire life on the things that I dislike. It must mean that they don't have a lot of happy things in their life that they can focus on. So the only thing they can do is focus on this idea of belonging to an entire cult of the internet that likes to hate on me. You have to understand I became the punching bag of the internet. Like Dr. Disrespect got banned. Okay. I've never met the guy, never talked to him, like ever had an interaction with the guy. He got banned and I was trending on Twitter with his band, people telling me that it was my fault that he got banned. It just doesn't make any sense. You know, like it just, it doesn't make sense. Like people were harassing me. Like, why do you get him banned? Like, what do you do? What do you do to dog? Like, do you cheat with him? Did you like, and I'm like, dude, like, what the fuck? Right. And so I became obsessed on trying to find out why he got banned because I wanted to prove these people that like had nothing to do with me. And it's just like, it's impossible to make them happy. Yeah, I know. And so that's why I'm trying to think about, you know, how do we, what do we do about that? How do you approach someone who's impossible? When it's impossible to make someone happy, how do you deal with that kind of person? Well, you can't, that's their own unhappiness. I just have to ignore it. Well, yeah. So, so, but then, then I've tried, I've tried, like there's, I remember there's one guy a little bit ago who was like really, really, really, really angry. Like just, I could just tell they were messaging me on Twitter and they're like, kill yourself, kill yourself, whore, whore, whore. And I was like, Hey, like, how are you? Like, I was actually worried about him. I was like, how are you? Like, do you have parents? Like, do you have family? And they're like, no, fuck you, fuck you whore, kill yourself, kill yourself. And I was like, I was actually, I tried talking to the person. I was like, Hey, like if you need anything, you know, just like, because I was feeling good at the time, like normally if I'm feeling good, like I'm strong and I can handle it. And, and I just feel like that person must have been hurting so much. Right. And like my whole night, I was just like, worried about this person who's like hating on me. And then I thought I was like, I'm so stupid. Like, why do I care about this random guy who's telling me to kill myself? Like, I am worried about how they're feeling and they're alive when they're being so horrible to me. And like, that's not fair to me. Like, I don't know what to do about it. Yeah. Honestly, in Italian, I'm not sure what to do about it either. I mean, my thought is that, can I think for a second? Yeah, for sure. Okay. So here's what I'm confused about. So oftentimes people come on, on stream and we kind of talk about what they're struggling with. And I can understand that you're struggling with this stuff, but the weird thing about this is like, I don't know that there is some way to help you get to peace with this. Cause it's sort of like, there's this assumption that you can do something differently and then you'll be happier or more okay. But like, this sounds to me like a little bit like cancer, like your attitude towards cancer only matters so much. Right? Cause like, it, I mean, I just don't understand how a human mind can withstand this amount of constant hatred over this amount of time. Like there's just, there's some things that are just, you're just not going to be able to like, it's just, that's not how humans work. Like there's like, I mean, I think that you can feel better, but I think we have to acknowledge for a moment that, you know, that- That is beyond my control. Yeah, absolutely. Right? And so I think that there's a lot of solace and there's like, I mean, I don't think you have to continue feeling the way that you do now, because I think there are some things that you can do differently and some things that you can think about and understand. But at the end of the day, I guess the first thing that I want to acknowledge is that this is not like a single player game, right? It's like, and no, I mean, I'm just hearing that there's just a lot of hatred coming from the other side and like that hatred needs to be addressed in order for you to feel at peace. Cause I don't know, I don't know how, I have no idea how you deal with that. Like, I just don't think that like, unless you become enlightened and become like this- I'm trying. Unless you become like some sort of superhuman where you're like Wudda and things don't affect you and stuff like that. We can definitely talk about, you know, how to take one step forward in that way. I've tried, like I honestly like, I've been, do you know who Alan Watts is? Yeah. I've been listening to him like every day. I've been like meditating, doing yoga, like, but cause I've been dealing with this for two years now, right? Like I've tried everything I can do and like I've tried shielding myself from it and the best I can, but it just like, it becomes impossible. Like if I want to do my job, I have to see these head messages. Yeah. So I mean, there's a part of me that says that like the real way for me to help you is not necessarily by talking or not. It's not going to be enough to talk to you. I think what I really have to do is try to understand the people who say these kinds of things to you. Right. It's like trying to understand. And I'm with you that, that there's just angry at things I've done in the past. You know, like there's, do you want to talk about that? Like, I don't understand. I mean, yeah. Okay. I can explain to you, I can explain to you everything that happened. Okay. So this all started, you have time because this is going to be long. Go for it. Okay. This all started with PewDiePie. Okay. He's a big streamer, big, uh, YouTuber, the biggest YouTuber in the world. I think I was live on stream and one of my viewers showed me his video. Um, at the time I was, I had just come from a trip and generally when I travel, I become a little hypomanic, just change and stuff. Um, and they showed me a video where he was doing an eye tracker challenge where he was looking at some girls on Twitch, like get up and sit and stuff, trying the whole point of the eye tracker challenges that you don't look at their boobs and their butts and stuff like that. And he failed. And so he goes, Oh, these stupid Twitch thoughts, you know, which I don't know if you've heard the term thought, it's like a whore. It's like a whore. Like, um, yeah, like just like a hoe that it's like that hoe over there or something like that. Okay. Um, and I got pretty mad. Um, and I had just started working with this company that was doing, um, like claims on videos, the word like compilations of myself. I didn't think about it. I got up and I screamed to my roommate like, Oh, can we copystrike PewDiePie? Whatever. Nothing. It was just like, like, like, like put a copyright strike on his video because he was. Yeah. It was just like a joke. I was trying to play it up for the stream or whatever, you know, like, like being like, Oh, let's copyright strike this video. But what people don't understand is that I didn't actually copystrike this video. Like I didn't do it. It was the company that was working for me accidentally and coincidentally put a strike on the video. Now this was this huge drama on copyright law. The company that I was working with that I stopped working with, they issued a statement saying like, Hey, Alinity wasn't the person that did this. It was an employee of ours. They had no reason to do this, like to, to put this thing out there, but nobody paid attention to that. Everybody was like, she's evil. She's abusing law, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, even though the proof was there. Like this company issued a statement. They said like, I didn't do this, but he had so many fans and they got so angry, you know, interesting. And so people, because he had so many fans and I was like a pretty small strike. I had like a thousand concurrent viewers. Like I wasn't like huge or anything, but like I, you know, I was like a decent sized streamer. Anyway, so after that, people started going back on a lot of my old videos, because I have eight years of footage and I had all my VODs from like 2015 and 2016 up and they went through all my videos trying to find instances in which I had done things. And I used to have a lot of fun on the stream. I used to drink all the time and like, uh, play just dance and like have a lot of fun. And then there's a clip of, uh, me and my best friend, we were drinking and somebody asked me, this is like the second, the second part of everything. Somebody asked me, um, how I got to Canada. Now I, I have to put a parenthesis here to explain to you something to explain this part, but I met Mike's husband in world the work craft back in 2009. Um, he came and visited, I think 2008, he came and visited me for a year back and forth. We were like super in love. We ended up getting married in Columbia because he wanted to stay there. He wanted to teach in Columbia. Um, but he wasn't able to get a job. So he had to come back to Canada because he was broke. I lived with my parents and stuff. So we started like a sponsorship and the sponsorship took a whole year and he invested in some times, but sometimes not. Um, so then after a year that I ended up coming Canada, we'd have been married for like a year and a half, two years already. Um, I found out that he had been cheating on me like the whole time. Um, and obviously it was really hard for me because I had left like my entire family in Columbia and everything to be with this guy. So I was very bitter. I separated from him. I was already in school. So I stayed here in Canada. Like I was going to school. Um, but I, I have kept a lot of bitterness in my heart for this. And I understand that that was my mistake about being angry at him because I said on stream when the person asked me, like, how did I get to Canada? I said, like, laughingly, I was like, oh, well, I got married and, uh, I came to Canada and then I divorced him. And so this whole rumor of me committing immigration fraud got started. And, um, then it was like, oh, you know, I literally committed immigration fraud. And then like after enough people say it and enough YouTubers make videos of these things, it becomes my reality. You know what I mean? Like people take it as a fact that that is what happened. And now I am very angry at myself because I feel like if I hadn't been better at him back then, I wouldn't have said those things. So I parted is my fault for being angry. You know, to tell you, I'm not sure I agree with that. And I understand why you would think that, but like, I mean, the story is you tell it today sounds like you sort of, so it sounds like you have sort of a tendency to make off-color jokes. And then for some reason, and I mean, that's, that's why I don't feel that anymore. Yeah. But, but people will always misinterpret the things you say and will create this idea that you're some horrible person. Let me finish the whole story. Okay. Okay. So after that, it was like, okay, I committed, um, copyright fraud. Then I committed, um, marriage fraud. Um, then after that, I, there's, there's an incident with another streamer that I'm not going to mention about. Um, and there was something else. I really don't want to talk about that one. Um, then it was, it was the, the cat thing. And this one was a really bad one. So my cat stands here. I don't know if you've seen clips of it. My cat likes to sit like up here. Um, and I was, I was playing ranked in the game and my cat jumps on my desk and I go like, Oh, and I try to put him up here, but he falls. Um, and so that's when the whole animal abuse thing started. Now, people started taking videos of every single time I had interacted with my pets in eight years. Um, and then they found a clip where I was drinking vodka and I took a sip of vodka. And then my cat licked my lips because I used to do this really gross thing where I would bird feed my cat, which is disgusting. I know. Um, so that means you feed your cat food from your mouth. Yeah, I don't do it anymore, but I used to do that. Okay. We all have younger years where we do things that weren't exactly the spartanist. Yeah. Anyway, so I'm drinking vodka and she was able to lick some of my lips and she was clearly distraught. Uh, and I never did that again, ever again, cause I was like, Oh my God, I was so dumb, but I was really drunk. So I know it's not an excuse. So then the animal abuse thing got started. Um, I invited the SPCA to my house. They came here, you know, they, um, they issued a statement as well saying like, Hey, no abuse was found, blah, blah, blah. But now I'm the person that committed, um, copyright law, immigration fraud, animal abuse. And I got away with everything. And you know how I got away with everything by sleeping with people. And so this is a linearity to the internet. So you understand a little bit where the hatred comes from now. Yeah. So let me ask. And I blame myself. It's all my fault. Yeah. So I know that you're going to start thinking that way, right? Because that's what happens when we, when we get treated poorly by other people, we start to believe that about ourselves. Like when kids get abused, so it's okay. So when kids get abused, they start to believe things that their abusers tell them. And that's not just true of kids. It's also true of like abusive relationships. And, and then we start to believe those things that other people tell us. Cause we hear them over and over and over again. And what I'm hearing from you is that there's, you know, there's like a little person inside you who's trying to tell you not to believe this stuff. But if you hear it often enough, you start to blame yourself as if this is partly my fault. I mean, there are stupid things I did. Yeah. They are my fault. Yeah. So that's, that's what makes me think that you're reasonable because I think you recognize that you did some things that were either off color or, you know, not really great on camera or were flat out wrong. Yeah. But like the whole bad thing was so wrong. I mean, the marriage thing, it was wrong that I said it in the way I said it, but I don't think that people should have taken a clip of five seconds of me saying that, you know, and like turn it into what it is because now every time I travel, it's a huge deal. Like I can't, every time I come back in the country, I have to go through like immigration for like two hours to like talk to someone and explain to them. And, you know, and like I'm always able to come in because they always do the research and I show them pictures and the documents and everything. And they're like, okay, you guys live together, you know, it's okay. We actually separated. I'm a cuddly. He, I didn't get a penny from the guy. I didn't want anything to do with him, you know, but it's like, people just want to think that I'm this horrible person. Yeah. So where does the, the, you slept your way out of all of these problems come from? Well, cause people can't imagine that I'm not in jail. Like if you hear all these things, you're like, this person should be deported and they should be like out of Twitch and they should be like in jail or something. And they see me streaming like all happy and having fun and people get angry at that. They don't understand that the, I, that, that like, yes, I have done things that are wrong, but half of the things that they've heard about me are a lie. Do you think you get treated differently because of your physical appearance? Oh yeah, for sure. And because I'm a woman, like there have been streamers that have like fed their cats chocolate on stream, you know, and bad for a cat. Yeah, that's terrible for an animal. It's just as poisonous as alcohol is. Okay. And it's like, people don't, don't think about it twice. You know what I mean? Why do you think they think about it twice with you? Because of the narrative, because of your appearance? Yeah, because, because I think it's the whole PewDiePie thing that got it started, like PewDiePie fans. And you know what the, what the worst part of it is that PewDiePie and I are good now. Like, like I'm good with him and his fans still think that like, you know, this is very funny. This happened to me with Soda too. Soda and I used to do arenas back in the day, you know, Soda, Soda Poppin. Okay. Me and Soda used to do arenas a long, long time ago. And there is this ongoing joke in which I was supposed to give him feed pics for Carry Me and Arenas, which was, it was just a joke we had. And then in one of his videos, he uploaded it online. It was a comment of that. And I had people come into my stream for like three years asking me about, like pictures of my feet. Oh, feet pics. Yes. And people came into my stream every single day for like three years asking me to give Soda the feet pics that he deserved. So the thing is because these videos are out there live, sorry about the burp, because these videos are out there. Because these videos are out there, then people think that like, that is the reality today. You know what I mean? Like if a person sees a video that's five years old today, they're like, Oh, yeah, this the reality right now. But it's not. So it's just, it sucks. Natalia, what are you doing right now? How are you feeling? I'm feeling better. Yeah. You're smiling. Why? Yeah, because it's funny. It's just stupid, sad, funny. It's just ridiculous. What's ridiculous about? Like, I can't believe that I'm in this situation because the situation is so stupid. And I can't believe that I get the amount of hate I get for something so silly. Yeah, I think it is a funny story. I mean, this is what the internet is about, right? It's about feet pic memes. And, and, you know, collaborations and, and people like, I mean, that's what hopefully life is, right? It's like, yeah, but like, back then, the feet pic thing was funny. And then the PewDiePie thing, I actually didn't mind it as much. But then now it's just like, you're an abuser, and you break the law and this and you get away with so much shit. And it's like, I don't have control over these things. Like I invited the SPCA, I have to deal with immigration every time I travel, you know, the authorities have been here, I have been cleared the whole, the whole copyright thing got cleared as well. And it's just like, people don't see that because they see these videos that people who are horrible have made online about me, like, exaggerating the truth. And then there's people like Keemstar, who like invents shit all the time. He like, he's like created Photoshop stuff. Like there's this on this ongoing thing that like I sleep with people at Twitch. That's the only way possibly in their mind that I'm not banned. And it's like, I don't even leave my house. You know what I mean? Like I live, you know, where Saskatchewan is? No, I just know it's far away. Okay, I live in the Midwest of Canada. I don't go to I've never been to Twitch con. I rarely ever travel like I've gone to PAX twice. And like I've gone to Blizzcon twice. That's like all the conventions I've been to in eight years. And like, like I sleep around so much and shit. We're like, I barely even leave my house. You know, so it's just it's just so ridiculous. It's just like, it's all so ridiculous. Yeah. So so Natalia, I'm kind of confused because it sounds like I don't know how to help you right now. I can help me. I think the only thing I can do like I have like, two options, I kill myself or I leave the internet. Or like I learn how to deal with it, I guess. Yeah, so let's pick number three. Number one sounds like not a good idea. Number two also sounds like that's not a good idea. So number three, and I am dealing with it. But I think I had a point where like, I don't want to have to deal with it anymore. Yeah, and I think too much work. It sounds like there are things that other people have in their lives that they can take for granted. Like when I open up the internet, it is not hateful things about me. And I can only imagine what it's like to I mean, actually, I can't imagine what it's like to wake up and have, you know, so much hatred about you coming from so many like literally having to wake up every single day and the first thing you do in the morning is clear hate Instagram comments. Like, that is my morning. Every single day. That's like 20 minutes. Then I do it. I've been doing it for two years now. Yeah, I think that that helping you deal with it is like a piece of it. But I think we've got to understand. I mean, I'm looking at this a little bit more and apologies if this is unfair to you, Natalia, but I just don't think that you can, you know, people are abusing you, which it sounds like actually what you're what this sounds to me like is that you're an abusive relationship with the internet. And oftentimes we see a lot of the problem is like, I deserve it, though. But you deserve what? Well, I hate I guess I mean, I don't deserve to you know, all the hate I get. I mean, I don't deserve to you know, all the hate I get, but I deserve the hate at some point. It's just like it's perpetuated, you know, right? I think I've already paid my dues, like I've suffered enough. You know what I mean? Yeah. So that's that's where I think that, you know, if you deserve I think if you did something wrong, sure, you deserve I don't know if you deserve hate. I mean, I think that I would I don't know that people deserve hate. I think what they deserve is, you know, possibly punishment or justice. Yeah, but people think that I didn't get the judgment that they believe I deserved. So they're giving me my punishment and hate. Yeah, what I'm trying to figure out is why do they care so much about you? I mean, there are lots of people out there that can be hated. And a lot of streamers get hate from a lot of people. It seems like you're lucky or unlucky enough to get a particularly passionate and committed group of people. Or what's happening is there could be a cognitive bias going on. I mean, I'm not really getting this. But the other option is that you are fucking up on way more regular basis and more severely than you think. Now, is that an option? Like, are you because I don't think that that's the case. But generally speaking, that's not the case. I mean, I had like an accidental accidental nip slip, like three months ago. But other than that, the cat thing was like, the cat thing was, oh, and it was so horrible, dude. They like made so many so many memes about it. And like they body shamed me so much, telling me that my nipples were like too dark. And they were like, people made fun of my nipple. And it wasn't an hate. It wasn't just viewers. The thing is, it's also streamers that do this all the time. And so when streamers talk about me and say shit about me, then their viewers come and hate on me. And so I just like got constant waves of people coming into my stream, because I like show a clip for like, like sometimes on Instagram, there'll be like a story of something I said, like three years ago. And then there'll be like, my Instagram gets flooded with people saying hateful stuff. How many people are there? Do you think that that sort of do this? Is it like, is it a lot? Or is it like a few very dedicated people? There's big streamers that do this, big drama channels love talking about me. Because I think like I became a meme. And so many people hated me so much that I became like a really easy way of getting views and followers and likes. And so I think that- What does that mean? What are you feeling? Because it's dumb. So what are you feeling when you start to smile? I just like laugh about things that make me sad. Are you sad about this? Of course, I just don't think it's fair. Okay. That people get to use me and the bad things that have happened to me for their own monetary benefit. I think it's dumb. Yeah, I've come to understand that there are a couple of channels that basically are like drama farming. And- Yeah. Kimstar talks about me like every day though. Like what, even if I don't do anything, he likes to go like, oh, I know Alinity. I know what Alinity has on Twitch, blah, blah, blah. I don't have anything on Twitch. What is- Who is Kimstar? Oh, he's just a freaking sociopath. He's like- He's done so many horrible things. I don't even know where to start. You should go watch the HeiHei Productions. They made a video on him. I don't even want to talk about it. He's just not a nice person. And I'm pretty sure everybody can agree with that. Well, he has followers, but he's known for like making up shit and like going after people and like affect them a lot. And I- Yeah, just not nice. Yeah, Natalia, I'm sorry to say, but like everything you're telling me makes me think that this is not like- This problem is bigger than you. I mean, there's a lot here in terms of like grief and difficulty and stress and shit like that, but I don't know. Like sometimes when I talk to people, their perceptions are distorted. And so I think that part of what I do is like help them understand how does your mind work? Okay, what is stress doing to you? Things like that. But in a weird way, I'm not hearing the whole lot. Like I don't know exactly how to help you. Like, do you have any sense of what I can do to help you? What can I do that would be helpful? I don't know. Do you think you can be helped? You're the professional, you tell me. Yep, I am the professional. Do you think you can be helped? Well, if you don't think I can be helped, then- That's not what I said. I'm asking you, do you think you can be helped? Here's the thing. I honestly think that everything that I could have done, I've already done it. Yep. I can- Yeah, I can see that you would think that way. So my next question for you is, do you think you can be helped? Do you think you can feel better? Do you think you can be better? I don't know. It's just a big problem. Like it's not, you're right, it's not just me. It's like an issue of social media and the world and stuff. Yeah. And so maybe that's why I'm having some difficulty because I think we have to start with your perception of whether you have to continue to feel this way. Because changing the way that you feel is actually step two. Step one is can you change? Do you have to wake up and feel the way that you do every morning? No. It's not worth it anymore. Okay. So what about your, what do you think can change about the way that your mind is or the way that your life is? Like the situation that I'm put in is the only thing that needs to change. So I'm not so sure I agree with that. Like either like not being on the internet anymore, and like that's a possibility for me. Like I can just go back to school or something. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. So generally speaking- I do feel like this is going to follow me everywhere. Like I live in a small city and literally like everybody knows about me. Okay. Funny thing, I was actually in nursing school when I started streaming the first two years of streaming. And I actually had a viewer report me to the CRNA, the registered nurses association of Saskatchewan. They sent a bunch of shit about me that I was like getting naked on stream and saying that I was paying college through that just like stupid shit. And I got called to the dean's office and the dean is like super racist and it was awful. It was an awful experience. It was partly the reason why I quit nursing to stream was because of that. Cause I, so like I'm thinking like if I go back to school, it's going to be that too. Like people aren't going to leave me alone regardless of what I do. Like I'd have to change my name and go somewhere else maybe. Like maybe that's the only way. Yeah. I don't want to accept that answer. I'm not saying that you're wrong. I'm just saying that I don't want to accept it. What do you think about that? I think it would be really nice to go and start again from zero somewhere else. What would be nice about that? That I don't have to deal with this anymore. Yeah, that does sound, I wouldn't blame you if you decided to do that. I mean, I think no one really could or I don't see how anyone could. I'm sure I think if we're, I'm hearing one thing, Natalia, it's that people blame you for all kinds of shit that's unfair. So they may find a way to blame you then. I mean, I wouldn't let people know where I am or what my new name is and they wouldn't be able to find me. It's like I have to disappear basically. Do you want to do that? Yeah. I just want to be a different person. I don't like being me anymore. That hurts to hear because I don't think that you're, I don't think it's fair for you to not like the person that at least I'm talking to. I like the person I'm talking to. I think you're a wonderful person. That's sweet. Thank you. Why do you think I think that? Why do you think I think that? Because you're a nice person and you see the good of people. Okay. Right. So now we see something interesting. So I think you're a wonderful person because I'm relentlessly positive. Is that what you're saying? No, no, I'm not saying that. But okay. If a person is not like a good person, they see the bad in others. If a person, I don't know how to explain this. Okay. So you see the good in people. You're seeing the good qualities in me. What do I see in you that's good? I don't know. You tell me. Nope. You tell me. If you really have trouble with it all the time. Really? Okay. I'd really like it if you could try. So I'm just meeting you for the first time today. So like, what could I possibly think is respectable? But you probably say that to all your clients and patients. You always tell them that you like. Ah, so when you say that I say that to everyone, what you're doing is actually invalidating what I'm telling you. Do you see that? You're kind of saying, but you say that to everyone. You don't know me. You don't know me. How could you like me? Ah, that's a good question. I don't know you. So what is it about you that I don't know? What would change my mind? Let's give it a shot. But be careful because we don't want to give people like more ammo. So maybe maybe don't speak. But my God, right? I mean, we need to be careful here for a second. But I'd say, like, okay, I'll tell you what my friends say about me. They say that I'm a very generous person. Okay. Actually, Josh said that to me yesterday, that I'm very relaxed, like I'm very chill. I'm cool with whatever. Like I'm not a complicated person. I like to treat every human the same. Like I hate when like other content creators think like they're better than other people. Like that really triggers me. So I don't know if there's a word for defining like I like to treat everyone equally. Okay. No matter like who they are. Do I know any of that about you? No, you don't know that about me. So why why on earth would I think you're a wonderful person? Is it just because that's what I say to everyone? Because I'm a human and all humans are wonderful. In a way, I guess. I don't know. Tell me. Yeah. So so but so so good. So now let's think about the answers that you're coming up with are just like general, right? There's nothing specific about. But I think this is the problem is that you started when you say you don't want to be you anymore. What I'm seeing is that you don't see anything specifically good about you as a person. Like you can't you literally can't come up with anything that you've talked about today that would make you like respect and appreciate you as a person. Right. It's all general stuff. It's like just because I'm a nice guy and I see the good and all people and shit like that. I wish that was true. But I don't I see I see badness in people too. So here's what I think is pretty respectable. The first is that you're trying to be different. That first and foremost has you in my corner. I'm in your corner. Sorry. Because I think you've recognized that you've done some things wrong and you're trying to change. So if there is one thing that will make me think that you are a wonderful person and makes me think that makes me respect you and also makes me think that you deserve my help is that you yourself are trying to change. Sure. So I don't know if you get this, Natalia, but not everyone is like that. Like you just think about the people that send you Instagram messages every day or like those people. Do you think they wake up in the morning and they say I'm going to try to be a better person? What have I done wrong in my life? And how can I try to do better? I find it hard to believe that the allegiance of people that are hating you wake up every day and try to become better human beings. Maybe they are. Maybe it's unfair. Maybe we're judging them unfairly fine. Right. And maybe there's a bias with the way that you're displaying information. There are all kinds of reasons that that could be wrong. But generally in my experience, when you have people who wake up every day and they just like spout hate at other human beings, that doesn't strike me as a very self-reflective person. Maybe they are. I don't know. So the first reason that I think you're wonderful is because I think you're trying to be a different person. Second thing is that, you know, I know this is probably going to get some shit for this, but I think you're actually kind of funny. And I think that you're also maybe, I don't know if you're, and I say this with respect, okay. But, you know, I still got to say it. I don't know if you're unlucky or to be honest, I don't know if you're a little bit stupid because I think that like some of the stuff that you're doing on stream is like, is like really not that great. And that sounds kind of dumb to me, but I also think a lot of what you're describing is hilarious. Like I think the whole feet pick thing is fucking hilarious. And I think that you are unlucky because I think there are people- I just like making people laugh. I know. And that's what Twitch streamers do. Yeah. I really, I really, sometimes I think like if I make myself look stupid and I get people to laugh, like that's a win on me. Like I don't mind making a fool out of myself if I can get somebody to have a good time. Yeah. So, I mean, I think a lot of what you do is like par for the course for what happens on Twitch and actually why Twitch is a wonderful place. Because there are stupid ass memes that get propagated and there are actually suicidal kids out there who can watch that laugh, get their day gets a little bit brighter and the world actually becomes a slightly better place. Yeah. And I do believe that. And I also think that like, I mean, I haven't really watched your streams and I don't really know and I'm new to Twitch. I've been doing this for about six months and I don't have time to watch much Twitch anyway. Yeah. But it does sound to me like there are a couple of things that you've done, which I would really think long and hard about. And at the top of the list is like how much you consume alcohol in general and also on stream. I don't anymore. Okay. That's smart. Yeah. So like sometimes, but. So that's the kind of thing, like when I think, when I respect you and I think you're a wonderful person, like that's the kind of thing that I'm talking about. Right. Because at the end of the day, I want to have hope for you and I think you are a good person. And sure, do I see the good in people? Absolutely. But I also see like the bad in people. And what I'm hearing from you is that, you make a couple of off-color comments. Like I think, I mean, personally, I'm not saying that this comment was good or that I support it, but I think sort of like cracking an immigration joke about your ex-husband who cheated on you is like within the realm of understandable, acceptable, unclear. But like people make jokes all the time. But with what I say now, like I used to be like a free-spirited person. Yeah. I'm not afraid. Here's the way that I felt before all this happened. I knew that I was good. Right. Like I knew in my heart that I was good. And I wasn't afraid of like saying something that would make people think I was bad because I thought that people would receive me in the way that I was expressing myself. And what I've learned is that you have to be really careful with how you say things because they can be misinterpreted. And I didn't know this because as a little girl, my parents never like told me not to do something or not to say something. They let me do whatever I wanted to do and say whatever I wanted to say, even if it wasn't appropriate. They thought they were just letting me be my true me. So I never really learned that as a kid to like be careful with my words. Yes. I think that's a very important lesson to learn. I'm happy to hear that it sounds unfortunate that you had to learn it the hard way. That especially when you have a public platform, the words that you say have a lot of meaning. And I'm not saying that the joke was appropriate. What I'm saying is that like I, you know, in private, I've had a lot of people who have dealt with very difficult situations and painful situations and they oftentimes the only way they can tolerate them is to make jokes about them. And that's what I do. That's what I do. Like I make like cap it all in jokes now all the time because like it's the only way I can cope with it. Yeah. You know, but like then people see it and they're like, oh my God, that is she doesn't feel sorry for what she's done. And so like, it's just difficult. It feels like there's no win, you know, after this whole like animal abuse thing happened. I was doing yoga on stream. I was trying to practice a headstand and to go in a headstand, you have to go and downward dog then to and it's a position when you go like this, basically where your legs are here, your bum is up here and your head is down here. Right. And my dog, this was right after the animal abuse, my dog comes behind me and starts sniffing my ass. And so I thought I can't push her because if I push her, people are going to be like animal abuse. So I, sorry, I very slowly. Move down, you know, and like, I was like, oh, okay, Luna, careful. And yeah, it took me a long time to like get out of the post without like being super careful not to touch her or hurt her. And then when people started saying was that I fuck my dog. Seriously, they started making memes about me fucking my dog and that I had trained my dog to lick my vagina or whatever. And it's just like, it doesn't matter what you do. Yeah. And what the fuck? How do you get that from dog sniff asses? That's what they do. I'm sorry. That just sounds so preposterous to me. I just feel like people really want me to be evil. You know what I mean? Yeah. So then let me ask you a question. Okay. So, so maybe I'm okay. So a couple of thoughts, one thought that I just want to toss out and then I have a question for you. So the first is that, you know, about a week ago, we had a group of female gamers who just came on and talked about their experiences with dealing with toxicity in games. And, and one of the interesting things that they talked about at the end is actually expressing some amount of curiosity about, like, why are, why are the dudes toxic in games? Like what's going on in their head? And that's got me thinking a lot about like understanding where the birth of hatred comes from. Because like so far what we've been focused on like as an organization is like helping the people who are getting hurt and like trying to help like the victims. But like I've been thinking a lot about, you know, should we be focusing on the source of the toxicity instead of the effect of the toxicity? Because what I'm hearing, and just hearing you today, I mean, once again, there could be like a bunch of cognitive bias or things like that, but I'm not really getting that. I mean, it sounds like you, you recognize that you did a couple things that were sort of out of line. I mean, none of it really sounds bandworthy, you know, to me, I don't know. But, you know, I don't know. And so I, it's just got me thinking a lot about them instead of you. But I don't know that it's going to be productive to have a conversation about them. So let's just talk about it. So I just wanted to toss that out. I love it if you think about it for a little while and then get back to me about the origin of the hatred. Yeah, the hatred comes from Yeah, or if you have thoughts about that, like, I mean, because I just don't think it comes from someone who is angry. Yeah. So like, I mean, the feeling of like, powerlessness. Yeah, so that's the whole point is like, it's like, maybe, like, we don't understand. Yeah. And, and, and, but here's the question that I have for you. And I think that this is kind of an important one. You said that when you were growing up, like you had a sense that you were good as a person. And I'm curious about do you still feel that way? Do you feel like on the outside, Natalia is a good person? I do. But I don't think that people see that. And that's what hurts me. Yeah, I don't think that they I think they choose not to see that. Yeah, I think I think it means a lot to them for you to be something. How is it? What is it called that bias? We're like, when you believe something, everything that gets shown at you, it's just gonna reaffirm the bias. Yeah, I think I think that's the availability confirmation bias. Yeah. Yeah, that's the thing. It like doesn't matter what I do at this point. Like people have already made up their mind and who I am, everything I do is just gonna confirm what they believe. Yeah, so I don't know. So it sounds like you're able to still separate their hatred and sort of recognize that some of that is irrational. That sometimes you've done. Yeah, I can. Yeah, it still affects me. Yeah, how does it hurt me? What hurts? It just frustrates me. Frustration is an umbrella emotion. There's another kind of emotion lying underneath frustration. What's what are you frustrated by? Can I go to the bathroom real quick? Yep. Okay. Okay. I'll think about it while I'm in the bathroom. Okay. All right, tweet chat. Yeah, this is this is this is interesting. I don't know how much of this is about her. Like, it's weird, right? Like, I mean, I don't know. I mean, you know what this reminds me of? Like, it reminds me of like, being a field medic. I mean, I've never been a field medic. And it's like, if you get a patient that's been shot a bunch of times, and then you deal with, you know, you get the bullets out and things like that. And then Okay, go back out into the field. Yeah. Sorry to interrupt you. Nope, go for it. I have to say I have the biggest insights in life when I'm in the bathroom. I figured it out. You figured it out. What did you figure out? It's a control thing. What does that mean? I've always had a control problem, like my eating disorder, like everything. It's about not being able to control things in life. I can't control what people think about me. That upsets me. I can't control people say about me. That upsets me. Ah, now we're getting somewhere. See, now I can help you with that. Ah, now we're getting somewhere. See, now I can help you with this. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So say, tell us more about that. I don't know. Like, I, I've always heard that like anorexia stems from like a lack of control. And like, for me, the way that like, I've always coped with stress, has been by like, being able to control things. Yep. So like, when I was younger, it was with food, I would just like be like, you know, the whole world can be falling apart. But if I'm only eating one apple a day, that's the only focus in my life. And everything else doesn't matter. Now, because I don't have that anymore. I organize. Um, so I just like, take my entire closet apart, organize it by color, by shape, by form, you know, um, clean my entire home, things like that. I've always had an issue with like, not having control over things. And I think that probably stems from somewhere in my childhood, where my dad was in prison, or, you know, probably there, I feel like all my issues started with my, I grew up in Columbia in the 90s. And there was cartels and guerrillas and bombings and kidnappings. And the cartel went down, my dad was related to the cartel, he ended up in prison, it was like, then my parents separated. It was just like, one thing after the other. And right after that, I developed fighting disorder. What was going on around that time? Um, well, like I said, it was like, one thing after the other. Yeah, sorry. So, so, so it sounds like your dad went to prison. And he did. What was that like for you? It sucked. It really did. And not just because of that, but because my mom found that he was cheating on her while she was in prison. So my mom suffered a lot because of that. Then my dad was cheating on her while he was in prison. Yeah, my dad's a big cheater. Like, I have, it's five of us from four different moms, there's overlapping relationships. Like, that was a player. Yeah. So anyway, I had like a tumultuous childhood, I would say. There is like a lot of things that happened that don't, I don't know, I wouldn't say like more than the average person. But there's a lot of change happening rapidly between the ages of like nine to 13. And then fighting disorder started. Then when I was 16, my mom had cancer. Yeah. And then I was still being bulimic at the time. And I was in, I got into medical school. But then I started playing World Warcraft. And I got like, I got upset. No, but it was bad. Like, I was addicted to World Warcraft. I quit school, everything. I started, just like would wake up, play all day until I went to bed for two years. I didn't do anything. That's how I met my ex husband. And then I ended up here in Canada. And then I ended streaming. And it's just like my whole life has been like a roller coaster of things going on. What did your dad think about you? Ooh, my relationship with my father, Freud. Why would he say about this? Okay. My dad wasn't really that much there. Like he was there. He was there like on the weekends. We didn't have like a really close relationship, but he was always there. You know, he helped a lot. He put me through like a really good school. He paid two things. So my dad paid private health care and private school for me. So I was able to go to school with a lot of like really rich kids, even though we weren't rich, like me and my mom weren't rich. But like, I went to like a really rich school. And it was hard. Because I don't know, I never felt like I fit in in school either. Plus I had an eating disorder. And it was very visible that I had an eating disorder. I mean, I was 23 pounds, 33 kilos, sorry. Like that's like, I don't know, like 60 pounds less than that. Like I was, I was emanciated. Like, it was really bad. And so I feel like people would look at me with like, like, yak. Like everybody would stare at me. And so that was pretty hard. That was like high school for me was like being alone and people like staring at me, because I looked like I was dying. Yeah. Did it feel to have them stare? I think that was my motivation for getting better. Is that weird? No. Like I just didn't want people to look at me like that anymore. You talking about people in school or nowadays on the internet? Oh, no, not on the internet. I look good now. Like I'm good. I don't look like I was just thinking that it was interesting because the statement that you made, I wonder if it could apply now. Oh, that you just don't want people to look at you the way that they do. Is that how that feels? I just don't want people to look at me at all. Like I want to go back to my small little community of people that hung out and played video games. I like that. I don't want fame. I don't want money. I just want to have enough money to pay my bills and have fun playing video games with my close friends. That's all I want to do. Like I'm not asking people to like me. I'm just, I just want them to stop harassing me 24 seven. So this sounds to me like it feels quite different from what the way that you felt back when you had an eating disorder at school. Oh yeah, totally. Have you ever felt the way that you do now? Like before, like growing up? No, not really. Like I had like moments of like bullying shortly, maybe like in like sixth grade when there's these two kids that like start throwing things at me. But that was easy because I could just get away from them. I can't get away from this. Yeah, that sounds like what you really want to do is just get away from it. Start a new life. Yes. Just play your games with your friends and hang out and have a good time. Yeah, you know. So. So just to be clear, you know, I think we talk a lot about the past on this stream, and I think we learn a lot of important lessons from the past. We learn about how to relate to people and things like that. But I think Natalia, your story is a really good example of how like, I'm sure the past is significant, but it sounds to me like this isn't some kind of, you know, this didn't start when you were nine. I mean, I think some stuff started when you were nine. Yeah, but I think I was able to recover. Like I'm my eating disorders in check. And honestly, like I think I have my bipolar in check. I haven't done any crazy things, you know, in the past few years. I mean, yeah, I'm a little loud and crazy at times and I, you know, but it's just my personality, I think, honestly. Um, so let's talk about, I agree. I mean, I think that this isn't, this isn't bipolar. This isn't, you know, it's not trauma from childhood. Or, I mean, it sounds like it's pretty clear to me that you sort of get a very high amount of hate and toxicity on a daily basis. And just thinking about the mind and the way that I understand it, you don't need to go looking for another reason to feel like shit. Yeah, it's not like, I mean, we can check a little bit, but, you know, I think that the interesting thing, I do think that you can move forward from this. And I think the main thing has something to do with sort of acceptance and understanding that you can't control people's perceptions. And so, I mean, I think, I think I had already gotten to that point. I just think like, there was a few things that happened recently. What happened? That like really got my whole barriers down. Well, it was like, like everything has been going with like, Crone and stuff. It's just been going like, like in a steady downhill. And then like, three days ago, no, like five days ago, Ninja made like a snarky comment at me on Twitter and like his entire following just destroyed my socials with like hate and stuff like more than usual because he has a lot of followers. And so I spent like all night just like reading really nasty stuff. And then the next morning I wake up and I find out that Byron killed himself. And I mean, that was just really hard. That was just really difficult for me to process. Yeah, because he was like one of the OGs and wow, like when I started streaming that him and Soda were like the other two wow streamers. And like, I knew that he had struggled with mental health for a long time. And, you know, we had we we hung out and the times that we hung out, like he was a nice guy. He was so sweet. And he just like, I just feel so bad about it. Yeah, he was a really nice guy. He's a good guy. Yeah. Yeah, I think I think COVID has been, I think for years or even decades, people are going to be studying the mental health impacts of COVID. You know, I wouldn't even be surprised if people are more hateful towards you because they're sitting at home and have nowhere to go. I think there's a lot of weird stuff going on. Like part of me feels like I don't deserve that. Like I don't, I don't deserve it to put myself in a position in which that's what I have to do. I completely agree with you. Like in a way I feel like I should protect myself from this. What do you deserve? Peace. Peace. Yeah, I think we all deserve peace. I think it's really, really sad that you're not able to find it. Yeah, I mean, I've said this a couple of times and tell you, I just don't know. I mean, we can talk about toxicity, we can talk about stress, we can, but I just don't think we can talk about that. I mean, I think we all deserve peace. I think we all deserve peace. I think we all deserve stress. But I just don't, I don't see a problem on your end. Like, I know it's kind of weird to say, but I mean, maybe there is one. I'm just saying I don't see it. I think, do you try to control things? Probably. I think you can think long and hard about- I'm a little bit of a control freak for sure. Yeah. So I think that generally speaking, people who are control freaks have high trait neuroticism, which is sort of a personality characteristic from something called the five factor model. And they tend to suffer more because they kind of get bent out of shape. Yeah, you know, there are all kinds of things that we could tell you to do, like, read less on social media or spend less time on social media, things like that. I can probably do that. I should probably do that. I try very hard to steer clear, like, even though I sort of, in a sense, have, you know, it's completely different in my case, because generally speaking, I'm lucky enough to have the opposite narrative from what it sounds like you got. So my narrative on the internet has been overwhelmingly positive, or at least from what I've seen. And so I'm lucky to have that. And I still try to steer clear of it. Yeah. And just be careful. You never know when it can change. Absolutely. Right. So it's going to change at some point, because that's what happens. The more you get idealized, the less, the more difficult it is to. The more you are, like every time that you're online, every time you say something, like every second you're online, you take a risk of like somebody misinterpreting it or someone saying something, right. And then like, it creates a lot of anxiety in me sometimes, like, to the point where, like, I'm sometimes scared to stream. Because like, I feel like I'm going to say something wrong, or I'm going to say something bad, and it's going to bring more hate. It sounds like a very exhausting way to live in your head. Yeah. Just constantly calculating. Yeah. Sounds the very opposite of like you described yourself as carefree before. Yeah. It sounds like you're very different now. I miss it so much. It hurts me a lot that I can't be like that anymore. Yeah, that makes sense to me. I think out of everything that I'm hearing, it's almost, I don't know if innocence is the right word, but I think carefree is like certainly the right word. What I'm hearing from you is that you have to fight. You're doing all these calculations in your head all the time about what you can and can't say, and what you should and shouldn't say. And I hear that you're kind of struggling to keep all this hatred at bay as best as you can. Like you're cleaning, like taking out the trash in your Instagram every morning. It just sounds exhausting. It sounds like it's really starting to affect you. Yeah. Is there anything else I can do to help? I don't think so. I mean, this is really helpful, I think, in a way. Oh, so? Because I'm not really feeling like I did very much. Um, I received some empathy, which is nice. It is nice. It's really, really nice. Not like I'm going to be able to do it. It's really, really nice. Not to be underestimated. Yeah. So I like talking to people who are nice, so that was nice. Talking to you was nice. Good. I'm glad. I'm happy to be a part of your public life that is not filled with toxicity and hatred. But I think it's also kind of sad that conversations like this or interactions like this are not the norm for you. I think actually it's tragic that the norm for you has changed so drastically. And what you have to deal with sounds, it sounds fucking awful. I can't imagine. I've dealt with a lot of people who have dealt with a lot of hatred. But honestly, this sounds the worst, if that means anything to you. Yeah. I know. People always message me and tell me like, you're so strong. You're so strong. And like, I might appear really strong, but like, it's so much work. Yeah. So I- It's a lot of work. Absolutely. So I think, you know, people call me strong as well. And, you know, I'm happy people feel that way. But- No way. Yeah. But I don't feel strong. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard to remember that it's like, it ain't easy being strong. And, you know, I feel like the fact that other people tell you you're strong makes you feel like you have to be more strong because those people are telling you that you have to be strong. Yeah. So I don't know if it's a good thing, actually, because then I tried for so long not to appear weak. And I think I just had a point, like I just had a breakdown. Yeah. So- You know, because I did, I don't think I showed like my vulnerability for a long time because I was trying to appear strong. So Natalia, I think there are some important lessons to be learned here. I feel like for some reason now is not the time to really go into them. But the first is to be careful about the expectations that you set for yourself. Because essentially what I'm hearing from you first and foremost is that this is a problem of expectation. It's a problem of what people's, what people expect from you. It's a problem of expectations that you can't get away from because they interpret everything through their lens. And you have to be careful because I think at some point, I mean, there's got, it's got to be affecting you in terms of the way that you think about yourself. And so be careful about, you know, even in a weird way. I'm not saying that, it doesn't sound like you're starting to believe them, which is really good and really healthy. And at the same time, you may overcompensate based on that hatred and become something that you actually shouldn't be, which is a little bit too careful. And I think that there is, there is reason to be a little bit less, I mean, a little bit less carefree. And at the same time, I think it would be, it would make me really sad if you started becoming someone who was overly careful. That if you couldn't let yourself cut loose from time to time, because you are a little bit on the edge, you are a little bit funny, you can say things that are a little bit off color. And I think those actually make you a wonderful person too. I definitely don't think that you should, you know, you've got to be careful with the alcohol and you should be careful with your pets, depending on what actually happened. But I mean, it sounds to me like, you know, you do care about your pets a lot. And, and I mean, I don't know. I do. I'm allergic to cats and I have three, like, they make me very sick. I wouldn't have them if I didn't love them. Yeah. And, and, you know, I think it's kind of sad if you have to be, I mean, in a sense, if they make you be someone who's like overly careful and doesn't open their mouth, like, that's not, that's not good. Right? Sure. Maybe it'll reduce the hate. But I think the really challenging road for you to walk is like, not to try to reduce the hate, because that's not something you can control. And this comes back to the toilet. Yeah. Like you have to, you have to live a life where not so much like you shouldn't do things that foster hate or give them ammo. You have to be like careful about that. But at the same time, you know, you're not going to be able to control whether they hate you because they hate you. And can you find some piece of yourself and it sounds like you can and really find Natalia or like who you are on the inside and recognize that who they hate is a lenity and isn't Natalia. Even then it sounds like, I mean, I don't, I don't think- But I have to like constantly remind myself of those things, you know? Yeah. So that's where, where I think we can change a little bit, because when you say constantly remind yourself, that sounds like a conscious process that you're exerting in the top of your mind, pushing down on certain feelings. Whereas I think what would be cool is if, if you, instead of constant reminders, you felt on the inside and kind of bubbled up some sense of like who you are, that these people aren't accurate, that this is coming from them. Yeah. I think, I think this, this comes from like, I have a very like weird sense of the world, I guess. This is going to sound really stupid, but like, I believe that every person that exists is like part of me as well. Hmm. And so that has good and bad things. Sure. Because it helps me treat everybody with kindness, but it also makes it so that everybody's opinions matter in a way to me. Sure. You know? And that is something that is really difficult for me to make peace with. Yeah, that's hard. I don't think that's stupid at all. In fact, there's a Sanskrit phrase that actually encapsulates that sentiment, and that is, tattva-vam asi. So there are four Sanskrit sentences that are called sort of the great sentences, which are kind of the conclusions that all these like enlightened yogis came to, and that's one of them. So I don't think it's stupid at all. And what tattva-vam asi is literally translated is, I am that, or that, thou art that, that you and me are actually the same thing. Yeah. And I agree with that. And it makes it so difficult for me to receive hate from people that I'm trying to treat as being equal to myself. Yeah, so I- I feel like if I had a huge ego and I was able to be like, oh, I'm better than everybody else, their opinions don't matter, I think it'd be easier for me to deal with the hate. But yeah, I think you're right. I think also that you've stumbled upon another important thing, which is that ego protects us from other people. And the fact that you're, it sounds like you're not very egotistical, which in turn means that you connect with them more deeply, which in turn means that you bear more pain, which is difficult. What are you feeling right now? I'm just feeling sad. Because I, I feel, sometimes I feel like my only choice to not let things affect me is to maybe change the way how I view the world. I think that'll help, but I don't think it's the right move. I don't think so either. Like I don't, I, I, I love the way that I view the world and I don't, I don't know what to do. Yeah, sometimes I have answers for people, Natalia. I don't have answers for you yet, but I do have some. So the first thing is that I have faith in you and I don't think that you need to tank your life to get away from it. At the same time, if you feel like you do have to quit streaming, want to change your name and move to even the further remote part of Saskatchewan, then go for it. I wouldn't blame you. At the same time, I think that what I've, what I've come to observe time and again is that I think you say that you don't know what to do. I say, I don't know what you should do. And at the same time, the cool thing is that we're doing something right now. And I wouldn't be surprised if you woke up tomorrow morning and you felt better in some way or had some kind of answer. So let me say this very clearly. A lot of times we're stuck in life and we don't know what to do. And the thing is like, we think, okay, I have to figure out what to do. Like we have to figure out a plan to move from like A to Z. You don't have to figure out a plan from A to Z. All you have to figure out is like A to B. And you don't know where Z is. You don't know where, how to get there. But in your case, what I would strongly encourage you do is like, I don't know if you're streaming today or what, but you know, spend some time outside because it sounds like it's a nice day because it's summer and you're pretty far north, it sounds like. So spend some time outside, spend some time with your animals. I have been doing that a lot. Yeah. I haven't streamed since like, like Thursday last week. Yeah. So I think give yourself some time and some space and recognize that you're actually doing a lot already and that that will start to have effects and positive effects. And so we don't have to figure out what to do. All we have to figure out is like, how are you going to, what are you going to do over the next day and how are you going to feel over the next day? And I wouldn't be surprised if you start to feel better. I think you should reach out to your psychiatrist and let them know that you're struggling. That's what they're there for. And then the last thing is that, you know, I think it's like figuring out what to do is going to be an ongoing journey basically. And there's a part of me that sort of says like, don't give up streaming because I think, so here's the other thing that I don't think people realize. Like, you know, you're creating something for a lot of people. I don't know what that is. And, and, but you're, you're resonating with people. It sounds like you're a pretty popular streamer. So, you know, like something is like, you're doing something that like is connecting with other human beings. You say you feel connected to other people, that the Bhamma see, call it whatever you want to. And I think that you're doing that. And it sounds like that's what your karma, that's your dharma. Like you, you're, that's what your duty, that's what your circumstances have allowed you to do. So I think you should continue doing that. And I love doing that. Yeah. So if you like playing games and being a little bit, you know, off color and funny, and sometimes you speak out a turn, like, I hope that you can get to a place where you can actually be like a little bit more of the person that you really are. And I get that. I think it's, you know, you're going to get hate for it. But sometimes when people hate you, if you start to like crumble a little bit, like that actually eggs them on more. And that's what I thought. That's what I thought, you know, that if I showed people that it was hurting me, that it would make it happen more. And that's why for two years, I remained super strong and pretended like nothing affected me. And I think it actually made people angrier. Yep. Yeah. So what I'm saying is not to pretend like it doesn't affect you, but to actually think a little bit about going back to the person that you used to be. Right. And going back, I'm not saying, you know, drink and do things. No, I don't like the person I used to be. Like, I think I like the qualities of my personality of, yeah, you know, like my dark humor and the fun and stuff. And I still have that. I haven't lost that. Good. I just have to be more careful. I think there's like a healthy amount of anxiety I can have in order to ensure that I don't say anything out of line, just not letting that, because anxiety serves a good purpose. Just not allowing that anxiety to overtake me into getting in my head and feeling like I can't speak or do things. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, yeah. I think part of the reason that I don't know how to guide you is because I think you understand a lot of what I teach, actually. And one of the big messages that... Yeah. And so I think your spirituality and stuff, your yoga and your meditation seems to be... Your self-reflection seems to be paying off. And so let me leave you with one or two last sentiments. And if I can, I'm going to try to do the thing where I try to give people hope. Can I try to give... Do you have hope? A little bit. Okay. Let me try to feed that flame just a tiny amount. Okay. So, Natalia, I recognize that you've been struggling for a while and you're dealing with a lot of hatred, but I think it's actually quite amazing that you are the person that you are. And what I mean by that is that I think you're growing in ways that are quite profound. And I think a lot of what you're saying and discovering is actually making you a better person. And I think it's making you into the person that the world needs you to be. Because here's the thing. When it comes to people expressing toxicity towards Twitch thoughts, is that right? Yeah. You're not the only one. You're not the only person that people hate. Sure, they hate you the most, it sounds like, but you're certainly not the only woman out there who's getting hate. And it's not even just women. It's like people hate all kinds of things and they just go really, really hard on people. I don't know why they hate so much, but they hate so much. And I think that you are actually making the world a better place by going through this yourself and learning from it, growing from it. And I think oftentimes we don't realize that when we're struggling, the world is turning us into the person that it needs. And I think the interesting thing is that people see Dr. K, but they don't see Alok at the age. How old are you, if you don't mind me asking? Okay, nevermind. I don't have to answer. So, you know, I'm assuming you're young, but I'm making assumptions that I'm older than you are. I'm 32. Okay. So I- How old are you? I'm 37. Okay. So the story doesn't quite apply. Well, actually, that actually makes sense, because that's why I think I don't need to help you as much, because I think you've grown a lot. So- Oh, yeah. Like if I was like in my 20s, it'd be a completely different story. Yeah. And I think a lot of times as we're going through the shit, we don't realize what the shit is going to turn us into after a while. And what everyone sees in terms of like strength is like the finished product. They don't see the process. And I think as long as you, I see you sowing a lot of positive karma. So I see you doing a lot of things for yourself to help yourself out. And it is my belief that if you continue doing those things, you're going to end up in a good place. That you've been on a journey of like self-reflection and growth, and stick with it. Because as someone who I guess is on the other side, who's kind of come out the other end of the tunnel, I think you're actually quite close, hopefully. You know, I mean, hopefully suicide doesn't win. But I think, I mean, because like I'm saying, I don't really see a whole lot to help you with, Natalia. And I think that's because, I mean, you do so many things that are difficult to do. You walk the line between acknowledging that you've done wrong and also thinking you're a good person. That nuance which you hold is so difficult for so many people. If you think about our community, they think they're pieces of shit and they do everything wrong. Right? Any mistake they make reflects on their view. What the internet, you know how the internet has a narrative about you? So much of our community has a narrative about themselves. And they treat themselves the way that the internet treats you. And no matter what they do, they hate themselves. They can't do anything right. I think like for the first like 20 years of my life, I had to deal with like learning to love myself. And I think maybe that was preparing me for this moment. Absolutely. And so, you know, I think you hopefully you're prepared. And, you know, whatever you end up doing, you know, you're kind of on behind you. I mean, not whenever I don't want you to kill yourself, you know, because you're a psychiatrist. But like, I think if you decide that you need to take a break from streaming or streaming isn't for you, you know, I wouldn't blame you. And at the same time, I think that sometimes amidst all of the hate, it's very, very difficult to see the good that you're doing. And sometimes even amongst all of the good, it can be just as hard to see the damage that you're doing. So that's something that we think a lot about. You know, I think a lot about whether what we do is ethical or helps people or what seems like the answer is yes. But just because the world sends you hate doesn't mean that you're doing a bad job. And if that's true, the opposite is also true, that just because the world sends you lots of love doesn't mean that you're doing a good job. And at the end of the day, you have to reflect and find that answer for yourself. You can't trust them. Right? Yeah, makes sense. And I think you're going to be I mean, I hope you're going to be okay. And I think that you're doing what needs to be done by having this conversation by thinking about it by reflecting. And I also think that a lot of what you need is not going to come. It's not something that you can do. It's something that we as a community have to help you with, which is exploring the nature of hatred and toxicity and trying to get underneath that. Because there is just no way, Natalia, I don't know how else to say this, there is no way that you have done anything that there's random people on the internet who you've never met and who've never met you and for them to hate you so much has nothing to fucking do with you. It has to do with them. Like, does that make sense? Like, you're allowed to hate people who, like, you know, steal your car. I dislike, but I don't go around like hating on them. Right. So like that that amount of hatred, like it just doesn't make any rational sense for you to just pick a random person on the internet and decide that like you're going to spend day in and day out trying to make that person kill themselves. I think like, for example, in my case, though, it has to do with people who follow certain, like, in like influencers, and then that influencer has a problem with me. And so they attack me because of the problem that I have with a person that they follow. Yeah, but still that still has nothing to do with you, right? Because like, if there are people who are extensions of an influencer's will, that's still a problem for that person. Like, why are you directing your thoughts and beliefs based on a particular person, myself included? No, I understand that. But what I'm trying to say is there are like people that follow certain others. Like, for example, Keemstar. Keemstar has a large, large following, and he likes to attack people and his followers go and attack people. So I do think that a problem, I'm not saying like in video game hate, but in the problem that I'm facing myself has to do with him having a platform in which he is allowed to hate people and not just me, like he like, said that some guy was a pedophile and like, he wasn't. And it was just like horrible for him. He like lost his job. Like, I don't know the whole story, but it's really sad one. And I just don't think that a person should be allowed to say things without having any proof, you know? Yeah, I mean, that makes sense to me. I think that also is sort of a societal problem. Like, I think this kind of goes back to like, it's not on you though, right? It's not that you're doing something wrong. It's that, I mean, I think we've got to figure out. I mean, I've made mistakes, but I haven't killed anybody, you know? Like, I think I even like, murders don't get the amount of hate I get. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds, it's rough. Yeah. So listen, any thoughts that kind of are questions before we sort of, I was kind of thinking about winding down, we've been at it for about an hour and a half, even a little bit longer. Yeah, like two hours almost. No, I feel better. I think like the- You look like you're in a good space actually. Yeah. The whole idea that like, I'm still going to cry, but the whole idea that I just can't control like the narrative, you know, no matter what I do. I think it gives me a sense of, maybe like, I don't have to worry about it as much because like, if I can't control it, then like, I can't do anything about it. So I think it's just maybe going to be like, not exposing myself to that hate as much as I can and like, try and protect myself so I don't have to read those things as much. And I do have some measures in place a lot. I don't have to read those things. So yeah, I think I'll be working on that. Good. So Natalia, just to kind of clarify a little bit, I don't think you can control the narrative, but what I would say is that, so the way I would frame it is that you can't control how they receive what you do, but you can absolutely control what you do. Yeah, but whatever you do, it's going to get misinterpreted. Like whatever I do, it's going to get misinterpreted. I already know that. Yeah. And so just be careful because sometimes people take that, I'm not getting the sense from you, license to do whatever the fuck they want. Right? Because I'm not getting that from you, but I was just for the people watching. Like, I think it's an important distinction to make that you're not going to run around hitting people and things like that. But to understand that fundamentally as a human being, you're in control of your actions, but not the consequences of your actions. And the reason that I have hope for you, Natalia, is because I think at the end of the day, the way that you are acting day to day is not correlating with what you receive. The fact that you're being spiritual, the fact that you're reflecting on what you do, the fact that you're being thoughtful about what you say, I think all of those are seeds that you've planted, which are going to bear fruit months from now or even years from now. The person that you're becoming is the person that you're going to be with for the rest of your life. And that's the person I can get behind. I think what you're dealing with now is the bitter fruits of seeds that you sowed many years ago. And the hardest period of time is when you're reaping your bad fruit and sowing your good seeds. And it can feel like you really, really want to give up. But in my overwhelming experience, if you stick through it and you do the right thing, that starts to turn the tide. And I really do hope that that tide turns for you. Looks like you're getting emotional again. It's okay. Yeah. So sometimes I teach people how to meditate. I think if you're feeling emotional, we don't. What do you feel like doing? Do you want to meditate or not meditate? No, I just cry when a person says something that I believe is true and then it makes me sad about myself. But I'm not crying because I'm feeling sad. I'm crying because I relate with what you just said. Just so you know. It's the way my emotions work, I guess. That's a very healthy way for them to work, Natalia. So what do you think? You want to meditate a little bit? I have to use the bathroom. Okay. Go use the bathroom. Okay. Okay. Revelation number two, ink. Let's see what she comes back with this time. Okay. So I got to think about what kind of meditation we got to teach. Okay. Okay. I'm feeling a lot better actually. Good. Yeah. So if you wanted, so tell me, guide me a little bit. I teach different kinds of meditations depending on what people's goals are. And in your case, I see a couple of different options. One is something that's a little bit more spiritual and some one others like something that's a little bit more emotional. Like what are you looking to gain from meditation? Oh, I don't want to get more emotional. I'm already so emotional. So you want to be like, like less emotional, like control your emotions? I just want to be calm. Okay. So I'll give you a choice. I can teach you a technique that will help you calm yourself down a little bit, or I can teach you a technique that will help you sort of more on a sort of more spiritual level, like thinking about your connectedness to other people and that kind of shit. What do you prefer? Let's do the first one. I'm already really connected to people. Okay, great. Awesome. Okay. So let's see what she comes back with. Okay. So let's start by sitting up straight. And now I have to think about which one to do. How clogged is your nose? Not that much. Okay. So let me blow it. Okay. I'm going to teach you something called triphasic breathing. Okay. Okay. So what we're going to do is actually, so the cool thing about the mind is that it's very connected to the breath. And depending on how we breathe, it sort of creates certain emotions and some emotions actually create certain breath patterns. So if someone's like scared, they'll breathe like, right, that's the breath pattern of fear. Breath pattern of anger is a little bit different. So if we actually adjust our breathing, and we kind of know this because we'll tell people to take deep breaths, and if they take deep breaths, they kind of calm down. So how does that work? We're not really sure. Whatever. But there are particular breath patterns that I'm going to teach you that hopefully will kind of calm you down. Okay. Or we'll help you sort of process or separate yourself from your emotions. And do you know how to belly breathe or abdominally breathe? Like breathe with your stomach instead of your chest. Okay. Yeah. So take a deep breath in. Excellent. And then out. Very good. Beautiful. Okay. So what we're going to do is triphasic breathing. So the first phase is going to be belly breathing. So we're going to do three breaths with our bellies. So for those of y'all who are watching, so what we want to do is on the inhalation, if you guys notice, Natalia's stomach is going to come out as she breathes in. Beautiful. Do you guys see that? And then as you exhale, the stomach goes back in. It's great because you have those little things on your pants so you can see the mood. Good. Beautiful. Are you guys seeing that? Okay. Good. And now, Natalia, what I want you to do is when you take a breath in with your stomach, when you're at full breath, pause for a second and then breathe in a little bit more and then expand your chest. So do belly first and then chest. What's hard? It is hard. It's supposed to be. Okay. Okay. So start with just the belly. Okay. Just like you were doing. And now incorporate the chest. There. You feel that little bit more. And then out. Slowly. Good. Let's do three of those. Breathe in with the belly. Expand the chest. And then out. Expand the belly. What? No, it's just, I feel it immediately. Yep. Keep going. Focus. I have a very hyperactive light. I know. That's okay. That's why we're going to breathe. Good. So notice that humor. Notice it within yourself. Good. And returning to the breath. Beautiful, Natalia. Just like you did. Good. Good. So now we can even see it. I'm going to comment about what we're seeing and I want you to listen to what I'm saying. Notice that what I'm saying is going to try to create a reaction in your mind and focus on the breath. So we can see there's a slight smile. It's starting to calm down. As we talk about Natalia, the smile may increase. She may feel more self-conscious. Just listen to the words. See, there's the humor. Good. So now she cracks and now return to the breath. Pretend for a moment that I'm not talking about you. Just listen to the sound of my voice and breathe. In with the belly. Breathe. Expand the chest and then out. So we can see with the exhalation calmness returning to the face. There's a pleasant, neutral, slight positive expression. Breathe again. Now, Natalia, I want you to try to break apart the abdomen and the chest. So do the belly first and then the chest. Belly first, slowly. Good. Now add the chest. Good. And now out. Now we're going to do phase three. Okay. So when belly is full and chest is full, then I want you to open your eyes for a second. Lift up your shoulders like this and breathe just a tiny bit more. You're going to get 5%. I can't. Yes, you can. What do you mean you can't? This reminds me of when you say the sound salutations where you breathe up all the way and then you can't breathe anymore. I just hit a point where I can't breathe anymore. We'll get you there. Sound salutation is actually harder when you do that, but that's okay. We'll get you. Try. If you can't do it, no big deal. So eyes closed. So breathe in. Belly, chest. And now lift up the shoulders just a tiny mouth. Do you get anything? And then out. That's all you need. You don't even need to lift them up quite that much. So abdomen, slow. Chest. And then slight raise of the shoulders. Just a tiny bit more and then out. I don't know where you get that idea, but we're just going to keep going. Okay, set that aside. That's a judgment about yourself. It's an expectation. Okay. Ignore it. Eyes closed. Back straight. You're having thoughts, so be it. Feeling embarrassment, so be it. You're not good at this. It's hard. I meditate all the time by myself, but it's difficult. Yeah. In this scenario. It's very hard. Yeah. So let's try one more time. I know there's people watching and you're talking, you know. Okay. So maybe what we're going to do is just close your eyes and I'm going to shut the fuck up. Yeah. We're going to just let you meditate. I love it. Okay. Go ahead and finish the round that you're on. You surprised me. You surprised me. No, it's okay. I'm good. Good. Yeah, I'm feeling good. Strong work today. Yeah. That was good. Thank you for taking the time to talk to me. Thank you for coming on and sharing with everyone. Yeah. I like that project that you're in. I'll figure it out. You know, the whole hate thing and stuff. If I can help you with it at all. Let me know. You know, honestly, we're trying to figure it out, but my first thought is that if you want to send some of your haters our way, like I'd love to talk to them. I'm serious. Okay. I just don't know if my haters would do something that how about I give you their Twitter account. Yeah, we're going to contact them. We're going to have to figure that out. Yeah. Cause if I tell them to go to you, they're not going to do that. Right. But if you reach out to them, like I get a lot of hateful Twitter DMs. So I can just send you their Twitter profiles and you can contact them. So I have to be a little bit careful because I'm kind of a boomer and sometimes I get into situations that are not good for me. So let me talk to my staff about how to actually do something about this because we want to do this. We want to talk to haters at some point. Cause I think we have to, right? To understand what's in their mind. Yeah. And at the same time, I don't want you to send all of your haters our way because you're pretty good at surviving the hate and I'm still new at it. So I don't know if I can handle it yet. I think they hate me. I don't think they hate everybody. I don't know, but if I'm friendly towards you, maybe I'm putting a target on my back. Oh, no. Anyway, we'll sort it out. We'll reach out to you soon. I think we have to, we really do have to figure this out. Okay. All right. Yeah. No count on me for whatever. And I'm going to say something about you after I hang up with you that I want you to watch on the VOD tomorrow. Is that okay? I want you to just think about this for a second, but I'm going to comment a little bit about this meditation technique. I'm going to teach the rest of Twitch, but I don't want you to watch it right now. Is that okay? Yeah. I want you to just think for a second, think for a day, and then you can watch it tomorrow. Okay. All right. Take care. You too. Thanks. Good luck. Okay. Bye. Okay. So no spoilerino. All right. So here's the thing to understand. So this technique is going to be really important for her because she was trying to figure out how to block out. Like she was like, people are watching and you're talking and that's hard. Absolutely. That's why you need to do this technique because if you can learn how to block out for just a few moments, everyone watching and me talking to you, that's what she needs. She needs a place in her mind where she can escape. What she wants is escape. And like even for 15 minutes a day, if she can escape from everyone watching, because she takes the people that are watching with her in her mind. I don't know if you guys like, if that makes sense, but the Twitter DMs follow her throughout the day, right? Like they go with her. They like infect her mind and they like propagate in her thoughts. And even with all of that stimulation, she's really got to do this kind of technique because she needs to give her space. Escaping is not about changing her circumstances, although that certainly helps. She needs to escape by doing that by all means. But the really crazy thing is that you can escape from all of that stuff right here. And she can escape from all of the hatred in her own mind through like dedication and practice. And she's well on that journey already, to be honest. It's really cool. And maybe streaming isn't for her. Absolutely. Maybe it's not for her. That's a decision she's got to make on her own. But if we can equip her with a tool that if she decides that she does love it, which it sounds like she does, then we want to help her do what she loves. And if we can protect her a little bit from the hatred by giving her a space in her mind to ignore my words and ignore that everyone's watching, because that's what she's trying to do. Let's help her do it. And hopefully it'll help. Okay. So