 How are you doing? It's been a minute. Yeah, dude. You look great Do I yeah, you look great too. You look you're glowing right now. Well, you know You're wearing button downs Yeah, I I have like 10 pieces of clothing total That I wear I want to be like you I had a face where I wanted to be like steve jobs have one thing that I wear every day like spongebob Yeah, it's like because you know in in the whole Professionalism thing like I had to find things that were comfortable like I hate getting dressed up and I just uh so I got like a certain set of shirts and then like a couple of suits and since the pandemic I usually wear just like T-shirts and jeans or shorts every day T-shirts are great I see that you have a twilight t-shirt there Dude, I get so many compliments on this shirt I bought it at target when I was uh, I had no clothes in texas I I got complimented on it three times today 13 bucks. Did you did you interpret what I said as a compliment? No Because I'm just telling you I noticed you're a dark light t-shirt if you're the market for a shirt and you want compliments I would get this shirt, you know, actually speaking of things that generally speaking are Men feel embarrassed about I watched the 50 shades of gray movie recently Mm-hmm And I I didn't watch all of it, but I thought the part that I watched I thought was phenomenal Okay, wait, what part did you watch here? I watched like the beginning like the first like 30 minutes 40 minutes sure And I was just amazed at how Um Beautifully bad it was it was like wow if you wanted to make the most extreme way But it really captures the essence of like ridiculousness Yeah Yeah, I look I liked watching it. I I remember when I watched it I watched it with an ex-girlfriend, uh, and I thought at the time because they were making a trilogy I was like, you know It's the mark of a great couple if you make it and watch every single one of these in theater Because you'd have to stay together for like six years And you'd have to stay aligned on liking the same shit the whole time Well, I mean you don't have to like it I guess, huh? I guess true. I guess you you're if you drag yourself along that still counts. Yeah Cool, so how you been man? I've been good. I've been you know living life. I've been um Enjoying life more I think recently, um Streaming still Hanging out with friends and my girlfriend still I don't know regular stuff what um So I mean like I didn't have anything in particular. I wanted to talk about today I think we are streaming. We're doing a lot of stuff around mental health awareness month So if there's anything like some something that we've been asking people is like what's your perspective on like, you know Why is mental health so screwed up? Um, if i'm talking to men we'll sometimes talk about male mental health too, but we don't necessarily have to do that That's basically all I had on my plate in terms of like what I wanted to pick your brain for Sure, I think you're just a really great thinker. I really like watching like mogul mail and just like the way that you analyze things um, so I'd love to kind of get your perspective on that but we can also just like chill and vibe and You know talk about other random things I'm dude. I'm here to chill vibe and talk about whatever. I I got a couple things sure Well, let's start here maybe let's do an update sure because last time we talked was two years ago, I think so uh, and we talked a lot about death and You gave me a great meditative exercise And I did it every day for a week and then stopped. Okay Uh, but update I feel pretty good about death now Did you have a problem with death earlier? Yeah, yeah the I had a fear of it. Okay And now I don't And what do you think changed? I kind of faked that I didn't have a problem with it for a while and then I didn't have a problem with it you faked that you didn't have a problem with it for a little while and Then you didn't have a problem So you were faking that you didn't have a problem with it before we talked or after we talked after we talked And what does faking it look like? I don't know just like Like accepting the thoughts of it like I think maybe like before I was scared of thinking about the idea of it And then I was like, oh, let me just think about it a little bit and then you know Like explore what that feels like and then that felt a little better and then I think it made me also um Focus on like little things that I like like I like I like focusing on like uh, like since then I've become an old man in some ways Like the things that make me the most happy in my day-to-day outside of like personal relationships is like Getting a coffee Walking and going to watch the sunset Uh, and I think that that I find peace in those things That doesn't sound to me like you were faking it Well, I was I think I was faking it at the start. I guess I mean like I was still Like scared but I was like, i'm not scared. I don't give a shit. I got a bar I don't give a shit and I would say that but I don't know how true that was but I think it became true Yeah, I mean I think what you're describing of of sort of awareness of the fear of death Awareness of a fear. So this is what's really wild is if you like look at like the yogic perspective and like meditation and stuff What they actually say is that you don't need to fix any problems. All you need is awareness of a problem So like if you're aware that you're you're feeling a certain way that in and of itself is sufficient to conquer the thing um, and there's really some interesting scientific evidence of this that if you look at like, uh, the science of psychotherapy There's some evidence that language can actually be a substitute for action so even like if you took if you're in a situation Where you are like struggling because like let's say you've like lost your job or something and you look at the Negative impacts within a human being so what's happening in your mind? What's happening in your brain? What's happening in your stress system? Fixing the problem can make those things go away, but articulating the problem can also make those things go away dude I learned that Is like half of being in a relationship, too I figured out I don't know if you have this in your relationship in your your you know, but I so Cutie would oftentimes give me problems She was having in life and then I would always find solutions to her problems And then she'd be like, I don't want a solution to my problem I just want you to listen to my problem and that was her solution was just listening to the problem And then I realized that oh I just have to stop thinking of solutions and trying to give it to her because I think that's more Overwhelming and just listen to the problem and that is a solution in it of itself. Is that the same thing? Uh, yeah, sure I mean I I think that because this is this is sort of what we found. Um as well is that most human beings If they can get in the right head space can actually like handle their problems The biggest thing that keeps us from handling our problems is like ourselves in the head space that we're in And oftentimes just if you kind of look at So when i'm feeling negative emotions and I talk it out with you Let's say and then like I feel better from talking it out like cutie's like amazingly capable dude and so if she can just get If she can just get her controller plugged in like she can crush whatever game she's playing And so a lot of that just has to do with decompressing our own emotions And like once we do that, then our brain will start functioning properly and then we're great So I think that makes a lot of sense. Can I ask you a question? Sure I forget his first name, but there's some I read a philosophy book over the past few months and it was Adlerian philosophy I don't know the guy's name. Joseph Adler or something. Okay. Oh, okay. Yeah, is that his name? Is it Joseph? I just threw it there is a joseph a he there's some stuff in psychiatry with Adler too, but yes That I think that guy And he said something that I thought was a little bold a little out there and i'm curious your take he said like um One all problems in life are interpersonal problems Like blanket across the board all problems are interpersonal relationship problems And I was like that seems kind of crazy alfred adler. Thank you chet And I was like that seems kind of crazy That seems kind of bold because what if you're like starving because you don't have food that doesn't seem like an interpersonal relationship problem and then the other one was like And i'm paraphrasing this so I could be wrong and if you don't know about it We don't have to talk about it, but it's like all trauma is like Like I don't want to use the word fake but it's something like that It was like all trauma Yeah past traumas don't define our future and so he was like all trauma is like it should not affect you at all that was it And I was like, that's also really bold And I was curious your thoughts on it Um, and I was curious your thoughts on it You don't know my thoughts in it Well, I think there's a general trend in men's health that kind of aligns with this and stoicism too. But yeah, go ahead Yeah, so here's my take I think that if you want any proof that those statements are false, you just need to look at adler himself because Force just think about this for a second for someone to say all problems are interpersonal problems and all trauma is false What that tells me is this is someone who was who hates themselves For being treated poorly Interpersonally and can't get past it That's my take Okay Right. So if you look at like a lot of psychotherapists and philosophers Their opinions have a lot more to do with their own experience of life Than they do with other people Yeah, so when freud is like, oh my god It's all about the penis and the edible complex and we all want to have like that says more about him than it does about anybody else It's just projecting one-on-one Okay, I think there's a lot of scientific evidence but there's a couple of caveats, okay So first is that When someone says all problems they may be talking about a particular frame of mind So for example like if i'm a psychiatrist and i'm working with a lot of people and I say all of the problems that I see Are based on this Then you know, whatever like it could be because of the people that i'm working with the second thing is that I think we have a pretty good evidence that Trauma affecting you is like Functional like that's a feature. It's not a bug So like trauma so here's what I i've gotten really interested in trauma recently and one of the big revelations that I had is that Trauma is not actually a pathology like when we think about pathology It's something that is functioning in your brain or body the way that it's not supposed to What's pathology pathology is that it's it's when something is ill. It's like illness. Okay pathos like bad Right. So trauma is actually like a survival or adaptive mechanism that is functioning the way that it's supposed to Okay, but over time what used to be adaptive becomes maladaptive Right, so it worked back then Yeah, doesn't work anymore But it's not actually like something is broken like we think about things that are broken But the more that i've studied trauma like even these things like dissociation and stuff like that Those are actually like protective mechanisms of the brain It's like keeping up like a prayer defense spell on in runescape But then you're no longer in battle and you're just wasting your prayer points I never played runescape, but yeah, absolutely Or or I would say I would say that you know, the analogy I would use is like if um You know if a like if you're just like sniping people in like an fps And at low like mmrs or low ratings like that strategy works Like it doesn't work as you get better and better and better and that's basically what trauma is It's like you learned some shit strategy when you were playing it like with noobs Yeah, and it was the only thing that worked and then like as you grow older like Yelling at other people when you feel bad and blaming them like no longer works Like that works if you're in an environment where like people let you get away with it Throwing a temper tantrum is a good example Okay on this vein because this could be very helpful and practical to my life You've given advice in the past for When people are in like a public valorant lobby and maybe they're like harassing like uh, like a woman in your group and you know It's like hey just back off something like that and enough of that repetition maybe changes their behavior How do I get my teammates to cooperate with me and work with me in game to successfully win the game? So I can get points and be happier That's such a great question. So I am low-key making a video about this, but it's taking a long time Okay, so here's so I'll I'm so glad this is this is my passion project and if ever This mental health crisis gets resolved then I can make the videos that I find truly fulfilling Ludwig. Okay, right? Which is let's get through this mental health bullshit so we can get to the real things that matter our mmr Really? So like we're like developing all these like communication programs for like parents and children It's like I want to teach you how to get your teammates to win. So I ran an experiment I have two accounts in doton So I ran an experiment I have two accounts in dota 2 are you familiar with this ancient game called dota? Yes slime loves it Okay, he's good friend slime old as you know older than you so in dota 2 um I have two accounts and I did this experiment where in one of them I Calibrated to my rank and I muted everyone else and I didn't communicate in the other one I Communicated with my team because everyone says if you want to raise rank like just mute everyone It's a multiplayer game, but why the fuck would we want to communicate like what like, you know? Let's just mute everyone and then then i'm thinking to myself like no dude like communication is what helps you win the game It's just we don't know how to communicate. There's no like fps trainer for communication So the what I sort of found is that there's an 800 mmr difference, which is probably like 20th percentile 20 percentile points of like rank That like if you communicate it's gigantic um And and so basically like I want to make a video about how to successfully communicate So there are a couple things that I do the first mistake that people make is that they tell their teammates what to do Don't ever tell your teammates what to do ask them questions. So I don't know if you've ever played dota, but Maybe this works with lol or whatever. But like so one thing that i'll do at the very beginning of the game Is i'll ask people Which hero they want me to pick i'm like hey I can play these three things Which one should I pick? What do you think people say? What do you think the response is when I ask that question? Like lock whoever you're most comfortable with 90 percent of people don't say a fucking word Oh just completely ignore it But and so people assume that now i've made a mistake But no, I haven't made a mistake because i've already signaled to them because they're just fucking confused who the hell does that? Right. Yeah, that would be a bit weird it would and so people are like This person is asking for my opinion to try to make my game better like what on earth All right, so but it lays a foundation for communication And then what i'll do is like if someone is like, you know, if I think someone is making a mistake i'll ask him a question about it So if if if one of my teammates is like doing something i'm like, hey, I noticed you're doing this You keep on going back to the lane and you keep dying So instead of telling them hey stop fucking going back to the same place and feeding you can say Hey, I noticed that you've been ganked twice Sorry for not having wards in the right spot Do you want me to like place wards or can you wait 60 seconds that I can place wards or? Do you want to move to a different part of the map? Hey, I noticed your bottom on the fucking leaderboard. How about you leave me alone? I feel like it would be the reply. Nope That's if you tell them to do something Okay, but if you ask them hey, I noticed that you're getting ganked my bad I'm not doing my job because you don't see the gank coming Do you want me to ward so you can keep on doing your stupid fucking thing? Or do you want to go to a different part of the map? And then you know what they do 90 percent of the time they go to the different part of the map Yeah It's crazy Are you swallowing? like Like certain things like are you just eating it like for example if somebody insta locks Are you just like are you just like hey man like are you sure you should have insta locked or are you just eating that? because like that might Because that's what pisses me off. Yeah, so so let's talk about this ladwig. What's the purpose of communication? it's to it's to Tell them when they're being fucking idiots for one and for two to collaboratively work towards our collective goal Which is gaining mmr. Okay, so Let's think about that. Okay It's the purpose of communication Yeah, so let's see. I understand you're in a relationship with someone right? That's Okay. Well, I don't do it. I was not thinking about relationship communication the first part. I just asked about communication Yeah, I thought we were in the context of that's the problem dude is that there isn't a different context whether you're playing a video game or in a relationship Every time you play in a video game you are in a polyamorous relationship with all of your teammates Yeah, but they're fucking me over and they got they got no game They got no dick and and and I I boot up because I play in the slums of valorant I play on west coast servers, which are the most vicious. I play at 11 to 1 a.m Which is where everybody is high as shit And or not talking because it's like late and their parents are in the same room with them And I usually get two sometimes three insta lock duelists a role. There should be one maybe two of And and I've developed a very toxic strategy. I'll come fully clean here I also don't talk because if I talk they usually don't reply. I also install lock a duelist And I and I and I say, you know what if we're if you if you want to fuck us I will fuck us all too. I will I will drown this ship. My mmr doesn't matter. I don't care I'll do this for fun and i'll throw a video on the side and this is a vicious mindset. I have it's a vicious mindset What do you am I maybe being too negative in my polyamorous relationships? What do you think? The ship should drown we should all die together. Okay, so, you know, this is a trauma response What's my trauma playing with these dumbasses So you want to know why people are seriously you want to know why people have been traumatized kill themselves. This is why Because valorate lobbies no because this this person triggers your trauma and you're like fuck it Let the ship burn Yeah, let it burn right like literally like i'm not kidding here like like there are people who have been hurt so much in life And when someone triggers that hurt again, they're like i'm just gonna like if they want to fuck it. Let me fuck it Sure, i've seen this Yeah, i've seen this a lot in addictions too where it's like someone's trying to be sober Right and they're like family members or friends are like, hey, are you sure you're not drinking? Are you sure you're not drinking like and they like punish him for it, right? Because like i've had an addiction in the past and they're like and they're like well if these people are going to treat me Like an addict I might as well fucking use because i'm getting punished for it. Anyway You know, why did I leave my last job? Oh, I like I had a substance use problem And then like they're if they're going to treat me like it like so the human the human beings We have a desire where when someone else kind of like triggers us Or take something that we want To take away from us And that's not right like and takes it away from us then we just want to say screw it and that's adaptive too Because think about what hurts more when something someone takes something away from you that you want or when you gain some control on it It's a trauma response. I'm going to control this thing a tiny amount and and i'm not going to be the victim here I'm going to be the fucking predator. I don't want to get owned That I i'm instead tanking everything The only person doing the owning here bitch is me That's what you're doing and i'll own myself, but i'm going to be in control You guys are not going to own me by triple locking duelist. I'm going to own myself idiots by locking yoru And i've got you you think you can own me. I will show you and I will tank all of our mmr I do that. I do do that Okay, I well I have an issue Where I think I have a difference in how I view online game people versus What i'm going to say real people? And they're real people that i'm playing with obviously, but it is a lot harder to like connect with them as humans to start communicating as opposed to like Like a barista my local coffee shop who i'm down to commiserate with or chat with or you know Like connect with as humans like these these people I don't view as real. How do I view them as real? Is there a sentence I can say to disarm them and disarm myself maybe? You know, it's interesting i've never thought about that Quite in this way, but is there one sentence if you're looking for one sentence, I would say hi. My name is What are y'all's names? Okay So if you want to humanize people introduce yourself like so if we think about it what triggers This humanization of other people it's like social norms like you can't shake their hand, but you introduce yourself Right. Hi, my name is like whatever What do y'all what do y'all go by? Okay And I wonder I mean if if you want one sentence, i'm not saying it's going to fix the problem, but it's probably one sentence And if someone says a good sentence if someone says like hey Ludwig, my name is jake and then you know instead of like You know sniper tits or whatever their their handle is like You can you know, you're like jake bro You need me to ward on bottom or you want to move like tell me tell me what what what do you need? So it's like hey sniper tips my name's ludwig I can play like a phenomenal raise or a very you know Locked down killjoy like do you have a preference? Yeah And so it shows like consideration right and like if you want to engage the right behavior and other people So let me put it this way when one person locks dualist. What do they make you do? They make me lock another role So people are gonna if I walk up to you and I slap you across the face. What are you gonna do? You I'm gonna i'm gonna say Oh, yeah Oh, yeah. Oh Fuck me. You're in some trouble now, right? And you're gonna you're gonna beat the shit out of me If I walk up to you and I hi Ludwig, my name is al oak and I hold out my hand and we shake it so you can set the tone of communication And all it takes is when they do one toxic thing And You can respond to that toxic thing with compassion you'll flip it around And I see it's hard so i've seen this like especially with like kids who grew up in abusive relation in abusive households like in school So if you're like a kid who's like acting out what you usually do is you get punished? But all those kids need is like one person to like tolerate their negative behavior and like care about them And they'll they'll like transform That is like a trope right like anytime. There's like an asshole like bully in a show or movie. They always have an abusive household Yeah, so I mean that that I mean that's statistically accurate. That's just consistent across the board. That's just yeah I mean, I i'm not saying that it happens every single time. Right, right one of the highest so There's a really interesting You know if you look at like kids who are bullies like kids who are bullies are oftentimes abused In some way so like there's just yes the most the most common Cause if you look at variables associated with being abusive as a child abusive as a child is being abused And it's monkey see monkey do right? It's it's all about reciprocity. So whatever other people do if they lock dualist i'm going to lock dualist If I get beat up at home reciprocation Yeah Okay. Yeah, I was working through that word Okay, these are great questions. I'm i'm never i've never quite connected the neurons in this way in terms of how similar Psychiatric principles are in gaming. These are are you are you on tiktok? Like do we have a tiktok account or do I use tiktok? Do you use tiktok? No Do you watch anime? Yes used to Okay, so you haven't seen like vinland saga season two. No there's a big trend on tiktok in pulp culture and pop culture and amongst I would say like general like like male youth of stoicism that I think is specifically stemmed from One vinland saga two and then also tiktok as a whole Uh, and it's just generally like a mindset of like, you know, nothing can disturb me. It makes me stronger, etc, etc, etc I'm curious just your general thoughts on like that stoicism its effect on youth because I I Think it could the the big phrase like I have no enemies. I think these are all like valid things But I feel like I don't know how applicable it is and how useful it is to you know, uh 16 17 year olds, so just generally curious your thoughts Can I ask a couple questions about that before? Yeah, please So, can you tell me about vinland saga season two spoilers Without spoiling too much. It's just generally a uh much more Mental uh season of anime where the first season was like very war heavy and it's like the like this is Historical wars and you're viewing it through the lens of a few characters And then one of the characters in the second season like deals with the trauma of that basically Of of having been in war in in in how to deal with that that is that is like the broad talking points without really spoiling much and In dealing with that kind of turns to like a general stoicism mindset Where it's like, uh, the big catchphrase is like I have no enemies You know, no nobody deserves death like any pain I've inflicted was not deserved by anyone regardless of you know Whether they're rivaling tribe clan, whatever Uh, I think is like kind of the the gist of it. Okay. Thank you very much for explaining that Can you tell me you mentioned like 16 and 17 year olds and tik tok? So can you tell me a little bit about what that has to do with stoicism? Yeah, so there'll be super popular like multi-million view tik toks and it'll be like a new jibes orian dance song And then it'll be like a slideshow and then or like a voiceover and it'll and it'll just be like profound stoicism quotes You know of like like I have no enemies and it's like built upon like, you know, um Dealing in taking in Any thing that could impact you and like using it as a learning lesson for the future and not letting it affect you as a person kind of Um is and it's it's usually like a hashtag Hope core hashtag stoicism hashtag You know vinland saga and that's that's generally like what I what i'm seeing a lot of um And it's like I think the most i've ever seen for a movement of like Men's mental health like it's not like outside of maybe like the more corny ways It's been done which I think is like fair to say like sometimes a bit corny It's a bit like on the nose like this is a very like built-in movement of like, you know mental health and like dealing with things Uh, but you're curious if you how what you think about it? Can I ask a couple more questions? Sure, and and let me know. I mean if you want me to How would you what do you mean by stoicism? I think it's built upon like not having any emotion. Uh in in a lot of these, uh Tik talks and it's like nothing affects you. Uh, but I I don't know how deep it actually dives into it Look, i'm a few chapters into marcus aurelius's meditations, but i'm not i'm no expert on it This is just like what it what it is hashtag with I would not call this necessarily a A new chapter and beacon of stoicism. It's just referenced a lot and it's the main takeaway is that there's no Emotion at all. Okay, nothing can emotionally affect you. What do you think about it? you're I think what do I think about it sounds like you have a opinion I think I worry that It is too Um That it perpetuates it like like a lot of like old-fashioned stuff of like, you know Manly man tough guy take everything on the chin like nothing affects you Uh, which is like roundabout like I think goes back to like, you know before There was a lot of conversations about men's mental health where it's like, you know bottle it up bottle it up deal with it Uh, and it can it can be a bit cold Although I think also like valuable in a lot of ways too in like I i'm I think they're interesting like I think stoicism is really interesting um Yeah, I I worry about that aspect of it the cold aspect Would you describe yourself as stoic? I don't know Okay, what that means? So here here's my take so I think stoicism is something that is Very easy to misinterpret So what i'm hearing on tik tok is a longing for numbness So do not let things affect you i'm going to be impervious to be affected by things that's not what stoicism is It's not numbness and this is the biggest problem What stoicism is is not being affected by things that affect you. It's kind of weird Things still affect you But you don't let the things that affect you Control your life. It's not that you're numb It's does that kind of make sense so like in this is there's a principle in buddhism Called the two arrows And and this principle is that anytime life shoots an arrow at us and we get hit by an arrow that hurts And then what we do is shoot a second arrow at ourselves For being hit by the first one They locked dualist. So i'm gonna lock dualist too Hmm stoicism is preventing that second arrow. It's not that things don't hurt Marcus aurelius felt a full range of emotions He was just tranquil in the face of those emotions So tranquility is not about being numb it's about Staying grounded when there are emotions in front of you And feeling those things honestly come to the fullest and when you feel them to the fullest they lose their power over you And stoicism is about not being reactive to the things that happen around you It's not being and this is the tricky thing. This is why people screw it up because they think that okay How can I avoid reaction to it? I can be numb to it. I can avoid it But then you start creating a life of avoidance and numbness, which is the very opposite of stoicism And people who start creating those lives are not tranquil in the face of life They're actually they don't gain control, which is what stoicism has you do They actually do the exact opposite now that i'm numbness is my tool and avoidance is my tactic I can't go out into the world because I have to avoid things So now I can't go out the way that i'm supposed to if i'm a true stoic a stoic can walk through lava a stoic can You know face give a big speech in front of 600 people and the reason they're able to do that is because they're not Controlled by those things but instead we see the reverse which is like now I feel socially anxious and I need to be stoic I'm doing this wrong and i'm going to retreat from it That's my take How do you walk the line because it feels like a thin line kind of like from being like uh, like very Avoid a voyaginary and being tranquil and stoic like how do you it's not a it's not a thin line It's opposite ends of the spectrum. Actually, you don't find that they're similar at all They seem similar and this is why people get it wrong, but actually it's opposite ends of the spectrum. So Tranquility with emotion doesn't come through avoiding it. It comes from feeling it fully So don't push the tears away. Let them come It's the exact opposite direction and just like you were talking about with your relationship, right like When you let those emotions out, you're fine. You're chill. You've become tranquil I'm not hearing that So your enjoyment of the sunset or your enjoyment of the coffee does not come from the avoidance of other things in life It comes from the exact opposite Yeah An awareness of death an acceptance of death is what leads to tranquility not the avoidance of it That's stoic my dude Okay Yeah, I can see that I can see also how you'd get it confused Yep, it's very easy to confuse like night like not nine but a ton of because they think that okay Like how do I how in my life? When have I achieved tranquility? I have achieved tranquility when the circumstance is allowed for it. So i'm going to chase that thing right So if we're being stoic in the valorant situation What does that look like versus being a void denarii? Genary, so what being a stoic means is not reacting not letting your emotions control you So reinstall dualists, how am I being stoic? How do you how does that make you feel Eat shit and die I would say to all three of them in my head internally But If I were to react Maybe stoically maybe that is in line with also acting compassionately Hey guys, um, my name is ludwig. We have three in-sid-lock dualists. How how can I help turn this ship right? Okay, so let's teach things you're in the right direction but you're actually adding additional things you're jumping ahead So compassion is a little bit different. So what is stoicism stoicism is not being controlled by your internal emotions or reactions so When you say eat shit and die, what do you want to do? Uh, you wanted to lock dualist, right? Yes. Okay. Yeah, so So whatever you re whatever your reaction is telling you to do not doing that is stoicism taking a step back from that Acknowledging. Hey, I want to lock dualist Compassion is completely separate. So just not you can still lock dualist I'll give you like you want to know how to win that game with three instant lock dualists You can even win that game by locking dualist the way you do it is bros What is going on here three insta lock dualists? Do y'all want me to try to salvage this or should I? Insta lock dualist and are we gonna have the most epic victory of a team of full dualists? I've done that a few times. It's worked once it was amazing when it worked the other times horrible Yeah, and you can even say that 99 chance we lose but If we win, it's gonna be epic. What should we do? Do we go for glory? Or do we try to salvage what is a colossally bad start to a draft? Yeah And even that attitude that's stoicism Life can send you whatever the fuck it wants, but like I ain't gonna let it control me. You can even lock dualist But whether you lock dualist or not lock dualist Can both of the one of those can be stoic and one cannot be stoic. Are you behaving reactionally or are you? Acknowledging your emotions setting an intention and then moving towards it Okay, that's a cool phrase setting an intention and moving towards it because when we react We're not setting an intention. We're not doing anything intentionally. It's reactionary Okay, I feel better about this For what it's worth i'm sorry that you have so many people who are insta locking dualists dude That's 11 pm to 1 am. It's just the hell time. It's the hell time. It's how it works I play at 3 pm or I play on midwest servers. They're sweet peas over there. They're just they're sweeties But west coast servers different breed. Why do you queue on west coast servers from 11 pm to 1 am? Lower ping and i'm electric with my rays so might as well use the lower ping to just carry with my indomitable gameplay What does electric with your rays mean I'm it means that I I don't miss it means that I tap heads I have magnets in my bullets and they have like giant giant metal in their heads And that time frame is because that's the only time I have free to play. Okay And and what what's the ping differential between west coast and midwest? it's like 30 versus like maybe 50 50 5 60 You know and at your level of skill that 20 ping difference is Oh, I mean we're talking about dropping like 40 kills versus like 15 like with that ping. I mean dr. K. I'm like I'm very good. I'm very good. Yeah people I'm i'm on a pro team Really? I'm the owner of one So, you know on the team still still on the team Um, so, you know like five of them get injured. I'd probably have to play What's it like owning a valorant team? Stressful but fun. I think we're in a it's it is the easiest it's ever been It's easy when you're winning And we're winning It'd be harder if we were losing congratulations I appreciate I can't take too much credit, but the guys are doing great and that feels good and um what uh What do you think is responsible for them winning? Uh, I think on the team obviously Yeah, one is definitely my direction in terms of just them watching my gameplay and learning from it. But the other is uh, They have been one unit for the entirety of the stretch So there's been no changes which is pretty rare like most teams have had at least one shift Uh, or at least a lot of teams have so they've they've been able to to grow together and then I think there's a general Cohesiveness in goal like everyone is aligned on what they're doing Aligned on what the goal is, you know, there's been some players who have had opportunities to go elsewhere But like they've felt really solid about this team And I think the biggest thing is trust. There's a lot of trust which I think is super necessary um, because it's like trust in your ability to play Uh at the highest level trust in your teammates to do what they need to do And trust in the game plan that you have going in and trust in your ability to win as a whole So I think it's all trust Wow, how is that trust built? Um I think it's through like Trust that everyone around you is working as hard as you are working Probably like I think if you felt like people around you weren't working as hard as you you would maybe lose trust in them Or you may you might lose trust in yourself and that could be Built on a number of reasons that could that could be as simple as like results oriented Uh built trust which can be pretty toxic, you know, like if you play poorly, maybe you lose trust in yourself or your ability to aim and that might need to be built up, but um, I I think because At like there's been like a snowball effect of wins. The trust is only built because everything has worked so far Awesome, dude. That sounds great How do you foster that that climate of trust or not being results oriented? I don't I don't I don't um Necessarily take too much credit but I I have a philosophy that I try to infect everybody I know with that everything will all work out Uh, and you can you can have confidence it'll all work out no matter what the result is and it'll all be good and that this experience whether it is a Defiant win and we become the best ballerina team in the world or whether we You know don't perform up to our expectations it'll all have been good and worthwhile and a great part of your life And I I think that's like the message I try to get to them How long have you had that philosophy about life? I think since I was like a kid, I think I got that from like, uh, my mom and dad They they they had that My dad had like a it'll all work out mentality. So I just kind of rocked with that for a while That's great, man I think it's true Because it kind of has to there's no other alternative. It can't not work out What do you mean by that? Well, it has to work out the the earth keeps spinning. You don't get to reverse any decisions So everything has to work out and maybe it won't work out in the way that you expected it But it will work in some fashion and then you will have to work with what like spot you are in And so like you will you will make it work it like it will work. Um And so like eventually like you'll get through any tumultuous time any period or you don't get through it you die and then that's also okay Yeah, i'm kind of curious about when you say it'll work what How do you how are you able to say that? Can you tell us a little bit about that? Tell me I think like um like I when I say work out, I guess it doesn't necessarily mean like hey We will achieve all our goals and we will be you know, we will we will be kings it's like um Like a good example is like I I like I like writing goals every year I like writing them down specifically and uh, i'm not like really big into that. Um Hippie shit and like, you know speaking into the universe, but I do like writing shit down and I think that's real And so every year I write a goal down and One of my first years doing this was when I wanted to become a full-time streamer And so I like I wrote my goals down I gave myself a timeline to achieve those goals and if it didn't work out Didn't work out if I didn't hit those goals, I would quit forever. That was like a like a definite rule that I gave myself but Either path I was happy with like either one I succeeded being a streamer cool bug or two I failed at it, but that also worked out because now I know That hey, I it didn't work out. I couldn't be a streamer But I don't and I can close that chapter of the book like I don't feel any regret I tried it I set goals. I worked really hard towards it I did the best I could And it worked out in that I know that's not what i'm gonna do now I can do something else So I can like figure something else out Because I cried I think trying and failing is really cool What do you mean by that? There's this anime called silver spoon and in it there's this guy he's a baseball player He's phenomenal and he plays in high school baseball and he wants to go he wants to go to college. He wants to go pro Uh, the rest of his teammates are dog shit, but he he does not care He's he is defiant in that fact and he uplifts everybody around him And there's this episode where there's like this major game championship game and he's like this is it This is to make it out. This is like to become a collegiate player and uh In the last second one of his teammate just drops the ball They just you know, it was a bad pitch the other team gets a home run He loses and if he loses there's two options one He lives the life of a farmer if he loses joins his family business if he wins He goes on to be a pro baseball player And it's like these two paths and the moment he loses Everybody is like shell shocked around him. They're like, oh my god. No, I cannot believe this happened to you And then he's just like smile on his face and he's like, it's okay Like we tried and we failed and that's beautiful and I will be happy as a farmer. I thought that was dope Yeah, I mean I I think it's dope too I I agree with everything that you've said I think it's really interesting how I'm so curious how you learned these things because I had to be taught very explicitly But anime yeah that was for that one it was anime, um Yeah, I don't know. I think it also stems uh, I don't know. I don't know. I think it's I think like, um Growing up also there's like I think when you're younger And I think it's faded off maybe a bit or maybe i'm just old and so I don't see it as much But it was kind of cool to not try and then also simultaneously maybe be good at things But like if you weren't good at things, don't try those things And I think that's lame and I always thought it was cool to try really hard You know and it always bugged me when people would say like you're trying too hard and I was like what's wrong with that? You should try hard And so i've i've always like been stubborn about that, but I don't know where that's from Yeah, I mean I I think I was in the opposite camp so I was a kid who was told that I was smart And so anytime I did something I could not try my hardest Because if I tried my hardest And I wasn't the best That means i'm no longer smart So I would actually self-sabotage all the time for the preservation of my ego I think I did that too actually in school because I was always told I was smart and overachiever And then but I didn't do any of my homework and then I would like still pull out like a b b plus a minus on tests And then the teachers would always give the review to my mom They'd be like he doesn't do any of his homework And if you were just able to you know push himself to his full potential then he would definitely be one of our best students But I think that made me feel good enough. I was like i'm not even trying and i'm already this good Uh, like and so I would just never do my homework for all high school Yeah, I mean I in my case it was If I do my homework and i'm if I live up to my full potential and it's a a minus That would be devastating Yeah, and that becomes a vicious cycle because the more so the less you try The more one-dimensional my personality became so I could only do the things That I could achieve with effortless success And then I had to start retreating from anything that required effort, which means that like my future was like shrinking I didn't play any sports. I couldn't learn any skills I couldn't learn anything because that meant I wasn't smart and then the pair the problem is the More one-dimensional my personality becomes the more I have to preserve it So the fewer things I can try because now all I am is a smart kid Because i'm not a good chess player i'm not a good athlete i'm not a good anything Do you play chess? So now I can't even study I I always tell people in my chat that Because a lot of people are in this boat a lot of people are told like hey You excel really well at math if you just push yourself or you know Try it a little harder you would be our best student or reading or writing or soccer or whatever it is and I I uh Maybe a little too aggressively, but I always say like hey you're not good You're actually dog shit and the person who's good is a person who's like trying their best to like get a good grade And studying super hard and who has to work incredibly hard for an a where you don't even have to try and you get a b Plus like they are better than you because they are trying really hard and like I think that's a lesson. I didn't learn until college Uh, and it's because the stakes were higher because like if I didn't perform at a high level Then I just lost my scholarship and then that would feel bad because then that was more of a burden For like, you know debt college debt all that so that was what finally pushed me over the edge Uh was college and that but I think it's yeah I think it's a mistake that a lot of people are told like a lot of people can relate To being told like hey, you're so close like you have so much potential if you just push yourself You'd be amazing and they never do and um, I think they need to be told like hey You're actually dumb as bricks because you're unable to execute your potential Yeah, so, you know, it's interesting because that that is Very effective like so just the from a psychological perspective what i'm understanding is if we say that ego Right the preservation of an identity that you are smart is what Short circuits someone's ability to actually try if you call them dog shit What you're doing is removing ego from the equation and now they have free range to try It's actually really elegant My take is a little bit different because generally speaking I don't you know, I think it's professionally it's unprofessional for me to call people dog Shit, I think it would hit really hard in the button down You call someone dog shit in a button down. They're like, oh my god I think it would hit hard Yeah, maybe too hard So what I tend to find is also works really well, maybe not quite as a not as quite quick And effective is what you say is i'll ask people because I think a lot of times when everyone's like Oh like you could like you should live up to your potential. You should try really hard. No one ever asks them. What do you want? hmm Like what do you want? Do you want to be good at math? Do you want to go to a good college? Do you want to do like what do you want from your life? It's not about what you should or shouldn't do. It's like what what do you actually care about and then work towards that? Right and I see this a lot with like, you know when I I review like personal statements for kids applying to med school They'll be like I want to be a doctor because I want to you know, help people and it's like why the fuck are you going? To med school you can go work in a soup kitchen tomorrow. You can help people Right. What do you why do you really want to go? And if it's ego then like we got to know right if you want to like be someone and you want to be like Like when you book a flight and it's like are you mr? Miss missus or doctor? And that's why you're doing it. Be honest with yourself And I think a lot of times just understanding what we want instead of trying to live up to expectations Can really bring out the best in our efforts because it's something that I want I'm not doing it to make someone else happy or impress people. It's for me Yeah Yeah, that makes sense. I think being honest with Your desires is cool I've gotten into learning Now at this stage of my life, which is funny because I was not into it in high school Cheated for a degree in college A little bit I had two degrees. So one of them was legal Uh, and and now only now i'm like actually into learning. I think it's like it's it's fun. It's like enjoyable What are you learning about? I like language geography history And those are those are the big ones I like and baking I want to become a baking is hard, bro I know and this has created a bit of tension in my relationship. I'll be honest Because i've told cutie. I have a dream of becoming a baker when I retire which is also her dream But it's but it's but it's different because she's she's an already an amazing baker already Best baker I know but she does like confection confection confectionaries. She does like little sweet treats. I just want to make bread Bread is my favorite food I will uh in all bread i've had in america's pretty dog shit and I would just love to just whip out, you know A hundred baguettes a day and that'd be my life. Where is the best bread that you've had? france There's a really good spot in la that does french bread. That's pretty good, too, though I'd say best baked goods i've had is actually japan for me They love White bread like white soft fluffy bread and I like the hard crust That kind of crunch in and it's like steamy on the inside of the bunch of pockets Which is much less popular there. Like I think it's much more like very soft like like Gooey bread which can also like have its mark, but I like I like the bread that makes your mouth bleed a bit I know what you mean like cuts it up on the inside. Yeah, it's good stuff I love me some good bread too. One of my kids is just Loves bread as well. It's red. It's great. It's my favorite food If I could eat one food the rest of my life be bread You know, it's interesting a lot of people have like gluten sensitivity nowadays. Yeah, and there's actually a guy in austin Who uses an old strain of wheat? So uses a strain of wheat that's like 800 years old And people who eat his bread? Don't have like gluten related problems because the the chemical composition of the gluten protein is like less inflammatory It's really fascinating like that started to that old starter is just Yeah, just whatever whatever the yeah, there's like some old. I don't know if it's the starter or it's the actual I think it's the wheat Oh, it's actual. Yeah farming. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah, the gluten is but I actually do wonder now I've never thought about i'd assumed it was the the wheat itself but I wonder if he actually has an old starter in the way that the The yeast metabolizes the gluten also changes inflammatory properties. That's fascinating Yeah, like some 800 year old starter. Yeah starters crazy Like just to keep that alive for so long seems stressful. It's like a plant Yeah, I mean it's do you Yeah, we we do that with yogurt where we'll have like, uh You know like once you get a good batch of yogurt like you want to preserve it because then all of the yogurt that you make From it stays good I was talking about this literally yesterday because my mom kept a yogurt alive for a decade Hated eating it right like it towards the end She was like she like there was too much yogurt to eat So she would like have to force eat yogurt because there's more than she would actually want to consume But she kept that like yogurt base alive for a decade and she would hate Like if she ever got rid of it because if you ever lose your yogurt like it's gone forever Yeah, and she got it from this like dude who came by one time and he's like you want some of my yogurt base Or what? I don't know what you call it. Uh the starter is it just it's probiotics. It's just Anyway, he's like you want some of my yogurt. I think yeah Yeah, you want some of my yogurt culture and she's like sure and she kept it alive forever So my family I think we have a really good one that kind of gets passed through and like circles back around So like someone will screw it up But then we'll like, you know when you when you get a good batch, you'll like give it to other people It's like horcruxes Yeah As long as someone's horcrux is still around the yogurt keeps running. Yeah, it was great. It was delicious yogurt. Yeah, it's good stuff Um, yeah, I struggle to keep even plants alive now Uh, but you have your your starter that you keep No, I haven't I haven't got into the baking yet. I'm I'm merely a student now I've not gotten there yet qd is going to teach me To to bake my first few loaves in the coming weeks And what are you gonna bake? I want to make bread but like kind of Like I am a student whatever she teaches me baguette is my ideal goal But I think it requires like I don't know if my oven's really good for it. So You know, I'm I am the apprentice. I am just here to learn And learning's hard when you're old Yeah, certainly you disagree um, I think it's a sort of a mixed, uh, it's sort of a mixed bag, so I think the Absorption ability of your brain. You don't pick things up as fast as when you're a kid but I think that your Ability to stay on task and discipline your frontal lobes are more developed. So I think it's kind of uh, It's like some things are better and some things are worse I think it's just more embarrassing. That's my issue Like learning is embarrassing when you're an adult and it's not embarrassing when you're a kid because you're supposed to be a dumbass kid Who doesn't know anything? So learning is fine But like for example, i've been trying to get really good at shooting three point shots in basketball and I am Mid I go two for ten You know on it's not a good day I mean, it's good if you're like on the bench on a jv team and uh And so I want to get better and it like part of it requires Uh, like like I think vulnerability You know, and if I was a kid and I was at a basketball court and I was shooting threes Like I would just be shooting them like nobody's business. But like the other day I was shooting threes Instantly the park gets packed Like out of nowhere just like two five on fives form and they're all like shooting around And I can see them looking at me as i'm shooting and I bro I am it's only air balls It is only it nothing's even hitting the backboard for me I'm just heaving them up there and I can I see people look at me and it's a bit of a spotlight effect because I They probably don't actually give a shit, but it's very hard to just like eat, you know 15 People who play basketball regularly watching me just with fucking air balls and then get back to the line and shoot it again So I but I forced myself to stay there, but it was much more embarrassing and I think if I was a kid I wouldn't give a shit Yeah, you know, it's actually interesting because that's that's like it's fascinating how cognitive development works Because we develop ego When we're basically done learning So if you think about a child, right? so a child like the way that a child learns languages one of the reasons they learn languages really quickly is because they're Not capable of embarrassment so they just babble and they learn really fast and So the I do think that there's there's it's really I mean There's a lot of interesting stuff around embarrassment and learning and how the two The development of the ego makes us feel embarrassed and makes us stop learning because actually what happens is when we become teenagers We start to develop an ego and we start to develop the understanding that other people Have opinions of us It's like a nine-year-old like sort of knows that okay this person likes me or doesn't like me But they don't quite understand that my actions today will form an opinion of this person This person will form an opinion of me that'll last And so I have to be careful with what I do that happens when you're a teenager it has to do with sexual selection Explain that part So if we think about why is from an evolutionary perspective Why do we develop an understanding that people have a lasting impression of me like someone has this idea of who I am? That's from a mate selection standpoint because how do people select mates it's based on their impression of you And so as we become sexually mature like we go through puberty and a part of puberty is brain development And a key part of brain development is okay like these people will have a lasting opinion of me so I need to behave in a way that makes me likable or attractive Which in turn means that I can't airball on the court for half an hour because then people will think i'm incompetent None of the other dudes in the court are going to think i'm hot and then they won't want to mate with you Yeah Son of a bitch. How do you get rid of that? How do I go back to being a nine-year-old? I would like to learn better So I think removal of the ego is the most important thing So if you if you don't have an ego, you can't be embarrassed. Do I do ayahuasca for that? Some people will use psychedelics to have those kinds of experiences Okay And um, you know psilocybin and ayahuasca peyote Those all will usually have some amount of ego death But I think a simple kind of like I I think you're close actually because some of the stuff that you're kind of saying about you know, it'll all work out like If you're bad, what difference does that make? Like Yeah, I think I I think it's good i'm aware of it i'm usually aware of it in the moment it just still feels bad So i'm like i'm aware that i'm bricking threes and that makes me feel like shit But it still makes me feel like shit that i'm bricking threes um Yeah, so I I think that's where so what you're trying to do is take away the feeling of feeling bad, right? Yeah So if you want to be stoic, it's okay to feel bad, which I know you understand Um Right, so like hey And i'm not saying that I just realized that could have been like a burn like oh like, you know what it's like to feel bad No, I get it but but I because I I see the I see the Consequences of that with your philosophy of life where you're not you don't retreat from failure as you discussed earlier And so like it's okay to like feel bad for some reason And this is where we could talk about this concept of some scars or even trauma like there are certain situations in which you're less You're more sensitive to feeling bad than others So my guess is that Baking for a tea party of women if you did a terrible job, you wouldn't feel embarrassed No, but playing basketball With a court full of dudes Trigger something Why? Because guys are meaner The women would be so sweet I mean I like I don't I mean, I don't know. I mean I can hypothesize but I'm gay No, it's not gay It's not It's it's it's it's It just means that there's more insecurity around the respect of your peers than it is around like mating stuff sure Right. So I I don't think you're worried about for whatever reason I mean, there's probably some there's a reason for this right you had some kind of experience early on where like You doubted Your ability to be a peer with dudes Yeah, probably Yeah, yeah, that's probably true I think there's a lot of uh, machismo-ness Right, so you weren't manly enough and so now you've got like some kind of like psychic like wound Of like okay, like I gotta be manly Yeah Can I ask you a personal question yeah you can So I noticed you've got calluses on your hands. I do is that from lifting. When did you see that? Yeah from lifting. Yeah, it's from lifting. I work out Uh, is there a reason you don't use gloves? Gloves while lifting I think it's worse. I think you'd have more I don't think it would help I've never thought calluses Does it? Yeah I feel like I don't want soft hands exactly I don't want I don't want to be no no soy soft hand having as any hard hands. Hell no, dude, right? Hell no, I need grit on these hands. Let me every dude who shakes your hand needs to feel I will I get called in my chat soft hands on a daily basis. Wait, seriously? Yep, this is real. You I don't know how you struck this. They they actually insult me by saying Soft hands and they go you got soft hands. You never worked a day on the farm in your life And so, you know It's but i'm glad you noticed they're not soft chat. I don't know if you guys saw that yeah, I think it's also interesting because like the twilight t-shirt also goes into this right because Who who can afford to wear a twilight t-shirt someone who's secure in their masculinity? Yeah, my goal has always been to become super fucking ripped and strong and then Do all the soy shit that I like doing Yeah, you know because if i'm wearing a twilight shirt, but I bench 225 like you can't really step to me It feels good. Is that toxic? No Okay I don't think it's toxic. I I think it's You want to prove to like Like I mean what I hear is that you have certain things that you want to do which When you do them, it sounds like you maybe feel a little bit embarrassed And you need something else to keep the embarrassment at bay Right. So if you're super ripped and if you've got calluses on your hands If you've got facial hair if you've got all this kind of stuff then like You have that shield of machismo to where people can't criticize you but that also signals that on some level you're still concerned about being criticized I think so. I think I am. Yeah, I think it's like It's human there's also just a circle on the internet that I would hate to be criticized by because I think they're all dumb And so I want to it's like i'm sticking it to them in a way but I mean like i've also enjoyed working out outside this context like i've been doing it for like about it 10 years, but like Like okay like alpha male internet. I think alpha male internet dumb as bricks, right? But it's a lot easier to argue that if i'm also fucking ripped And then i'm like, hey you guys are cringe. I like my twilight shirt, but maybe that's just toxic Um I I don't think it's toxic and I don't think alpha male internet So so what How are you doing with this conversation is this okay i'm doing great how are you doing okay i'm doing good But at the beginning we were talking about like gaming and stuff and like now i'm like pointing out things about your physical appearance And I realized that like that may be a little bit Um It doesn't feel quite as collegial to me And I just want to like like we're not on the same level, right? Like i'm like putting things out and you're not like you can point out things about my physical appearance I pointed out your button down I think we're fair. Okay. I think we're good. Plus you pointed out that I don't have soft hands, which is great Ammunition for my chat for for months. Yeah, dude, I mean you you are very manly chat. I mean you heard him Um, anyway, yeah you were saying so so so I I think I so it sounds like like if you do if you don't look a certain way and you advocate for particular things the alpha males of the internet will say you are a You are not manly because you you know, you can say this kind of stuff, but you're kind of effeminate or whatever, right? Yeah, and so in order to like like disarm their criticism You have to be particular things because then they can't criticize because that's all they know how to criticize you with Yes Right. I think that makes a lot of sense. I mean because I do think that they have very black and white I mean there's a diverse population. Let's start with that right there. I'll believe the same thing But I I do think that they have certain correlations that they consider to be like law Like if you're an alpha you have to be this you have to be this you have to be you have to check all these Boxes and then you're an alpha for the record. I don't think that they're dumb as bricks. I I don't you know I think they're wrong About a lot of things but I don't think that they're dumb dumb as bricks is Definitely a phrase I use regularly that doesn't necessarily mean Yeah, what it says, I think it just means that I think they're wrong, too I mean, I think they're wrong about a lot of things, but I think part of the problem is that they're right about a lot Of things but the way that they behave Makes it very hard to acknowledge that there's a portion of stuff. That's right Yeah I mean that's the andrew tate i've been talking about that because he'll drop a truth bomb every now and again and people freak Out about it and then i'll just say a bunch of dumb shit Yeah, I mean I think it's like this tick-tock stoicism stuff where where there's there's something that you want to aspire to but I think the fact that this sort of alpha mentality is growing within men speaks to A serious problem that men have and the alphas are the only ones that are actually acknowledging it So this is kind of weird. But like if you're a man today Most people tell you that your life should be easy because you've got privilege Right and that like you're a dude and there's truth to that like men do have privilege There's a lot of good data around that kind of stuff and also that if you are an alpha man, you have more privilege So we we know for example that men who are over six feet tall are much more likely to be in leadership positions within organizations that men can Get away with particular things that women can't get away with what's kind of interesting is that women can get away with particular things That men can't get away with Like slapping people of the other gender um and but but what's really interesting if you look at kind of alphas is that The one thing i've noticed about that whole crowd is they're the only ones that acknowledge that men have a life that's difficult So they say like yeah, you know, like if you're a beta your life is hard Here's how to fix it, but they're the only ones out there that are saying actually it's like your life is hard What are you going to do about it? Are you going to make something of yourself? because It's tough now in your pos I can show you the way but it's really interesting because they're the only crowd that i've heard that really validates men's experiences Right. Yeah, everyone else is getting handouts like it's trick or treat But men because you get all your privilege, you know gives you shit and your life sucks. So who's helping you i'm helping you Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah I think which which may be a you know, take that'll get me cancelled But honestly, it's an observation that i've seen that not many people are validating of men's experiences No, I think it's that's valid and I think occasionally I try to throw in things to hopefully make people Like maybe specifically like young men in my chat like feel some sort of um Or like try to uplift them in some way or like validate that that same thing. Um, but I I want to What what aspects should I take more of to acknowledge that while not becoming an alpha male? well I mean, what do you think? Trans people And then you start there and then that brings in a huge crowd because that's most problems on earth, right? So we can start there Uh, no for for being real for being real. It's um by the way Thriving trans community in my in my chat very very very much love them. Uh, I think it's I don't know. I don't I I just like Trying to tell people to do something that's good for them that makes them happy once a day that's pretty much it I think that's a great start What do you think the alphas would say about that? I don't know. I think they'd be on board. Yeah, I guess right, I think a big part of that movement is so I think the healthy parts of that are like in acknowledging that You're basically like responsible for your own happiness and to try to cultivate that very intentionally and that some of the living up to societal norms Will not necessarily make you happy that especially as a man like if you are sort of like a Like a robotic provider That you can get taken advantage of So I think that there's a lot of like, you know experience that people have With a lot of that stuff where they they sort of advocate for people to take care of themselves and things like that I think the real challenging thing is that there's a lot of toxicity associated with it, which I don't think needs to be there Which I think is what your question is. It's like what's the good stuff? I think some amount of individual responsibility some amount of acknowledging And this is I think what's kind of tragic is I hope we didn't even really learn our lesson with the me too movement But the good thing about the me too movement is we started believing people Who said that hey this thing like happened to me, right? And like instead of just sweeping it under the rug or saying you deserved it. I'm not saying that everything is better and we still Will um frequently do not take the complaints of people seriously and despite the progress with the me too movement, we see this a lot in medicine where uh, like female patients are have a higher mortality rate when they're Taking care of by male surgeons So there's just something about like so some male doctors and male surgeons will oftentimes across the whole Doesn't mean that a particular surgeon is bad, right? But they'll devalue like the pain that women experience and I don't mean like the pain I mean like literally like pain scores like if a woman says to a female doctor like hey I think something is wrong and all the labs and everything are reassuring and everything seems fine A female doctor is more likely to say okay Like i'm going to ignore all of the data and i'm going to trust this person who is speaking And I think on the whole what we see with male surgeons Is they're less likely to take that seriously and they're like more likely to focus on the data which literally leads to worse outcomes Right and and I think what we really need to do for men I know that was kind of a tangent but I think that was interesting what we need to do for men and stuff is just Acknowledge like hey if you're suffering like you're allowed to suffer and that's okay Yeah, and the real tragedy is that I think if you're kind of anti-alpha The solution is not to tear down the alphas It's to offer young men an alternative that validates their experience and supports them As opposed to tearing down the one place where they're getting that kind of support right Yeah, like if if there are if you just got rid of all alpha males, then there might not be A place for people to go What's that guy's name bomb gardener? That guy's great I I mean, I think the reason that you see alpha males crop up over and over and over again Despite the fact that a lot of them will get cancelled is because No one is addressing the need So you can you can you know chop down one you can cancel one but someone else is going to crop up Right because there's still a need for that sort of I got almost into that shit Alpha male stuff me too Because I you know, I I liked I liked looking at every guy as like a like a father figure or something like looking up to people I thought that was that's what I did for a long time But I I never got that In a way I don't know why college too liberal I think in my case it was just timing so i'm I don't think it was as available. I think if I If 18 year old me or 19 year old me was on the internet today, I think I would be a part of that crowd Yeah, I see what you mean Yeah, I think if I was if I honestly if I played a different game I might be in that crowd Like if growing up I had played a game that was more on the computer and i'd been on the computer more than like call duty So i'm on the console all the time that I might have just gotten into that crowd just because I might have Um been more exposed to it Um because i've like Uh at the very least I try to give everything like a listen and an understanding you know, because I think there's like conventions at that are popular at least among like Left-leaning groups, which is like oftentimes a lot of like online communities like twitch and in youtube. It's like, all right Uh, you know jordan peterson cringe make your bed guy bench bureau, uh, uh, you know, all right guy So I was like and then it's like andrew tate this guy it's like so everyone's like has these kind of like Brandings around them. So I was like for a period when I was in college I was like, all right, let me listen to all these people and see what they say And then I came to my own conclusion. I was like, oh, I think they're dumb um, but I think I was old enough to have Had values that made me come to that conclusion as opposed to just believing other people's conclusions what what what what Did they say or represent that? made you kind of Reject what they were saying or conclude that they weren't good I think I Uh Saw it as like a general lack of Maybe empathy And I think I value that really highly Um And then I think an inability to give things that would Help my life at least for me personally so it might have been more personal like I didn't find a lot of things that Like from listening that I was like, oh this this is this helps improve my my state of being um It would more so like I think just maybe maybe make me find someone new to I don't know it didn't help my life. I think because I got into a big self-improvement phase And this was like right around then and it was like and none of this is making me like a better person Hmm Yeah, because I I think a lot of people I don't know about like ben shapiro I think he's a little bit more political but like a lot of people find jordan peterson's advice and methodologies and stuff to be like Absolutely transformative. Yeah in terms of improving their life And I I don't know I mean i've sort of i'm not too familiar like as he's moved away from Psychology i've like seen or consumed less of his stuff But I remember being in residency and I watched his lectures on personality, which I thought were brilliant So I was struggling to understand like personality development because we don't really get a whole lot of it in psychiatry like we're focused on Illness and diagnoses but like how does a human being develop? In his I mean I watched the whole thing because he kind of takes like, you know It has one lecture on okay. This perspective says this this perspective says this this perspective says this I thought it was really great What is that what what is personality development? Um, so Do you know what person it sounds like a silly question But what's your do you know what personality is because I think understanding personality development means understanding personality Like what do you think a quiz? I think i'm em gpa ggp or something. Okay, so let's understand you ready for a mini lecture Sure. Okay So who are you? Um, Ludwig I stream sometimes. Okay, cool. So Ludwig, right? You've been you your whole life Version of it. Yeah a version of it, right? Sure. So were you always a streamer? No, were you always Ludwig? No in college I was Anders, okay, and so Are you the person that you were in college? No, no similar, but have you always been you? Yes, yes weird Yeah, right. Did you always have manly calluses on your hands? out the womb They gave me iron out the womb and I just lifted it Uh, so so I I think so let's start by understanding like what a human being is, right? So there's in the east we have this idea that there's a self So who you are there are attributes of you that change over the course of your life But there's a you-ness that is constant So you used to be like maybe two feet tall and now you're however tall you are you look the way that you look You're a student you're a streamer you're Ludwig you're Anders you're maybe one day I don't know if you have kids or not. Maybe one day you're a father. Maybe you're not you're married You're retired you're a baker you're a streamer, you know, like there's all these things about us There are things that we identify with that all change So then how can you be you because in one version you're a streamer who's this and in one version of that your body changes Your circumstances change your so there's a there's a true self Above the true self and that's the continuity of you amongst all of those things Above the true self is something that I would say we is called a personality Now some people may say that the true self and the personality are the same but i'd say the personality is what's on top So how do we understand what personality is if you and I? Go into the same exact situation We will not do and say the exact same things All of the circumstances can be a hundred percent the same But two human beings will react slightly differently You know, you'll Say, what's up? I'll say hello so personality is essentially The construction that we have that shapes the way that we perceive the world shapes the way that we analyze The world and shapes the way that we react to the world So in one situation like for example baking bread for a group of women I would be really comfortable with You would be really comfortable with i'm sure you're very charming with grannies And I would be very embarrassed like I still don't know how to dribble I would feel a lot of embarrassment on the basketball court Right. So there's some aspects of our personality There's some circumstances where people we'd be terrified to bake in front of women Or would be terrified to look like an idiot like i'm just Look like an idiot like i'm totally fine like chad mode like he's surrounded with women like I can play that game all day Surround me with dudes harder Yeah, so that's what personality is it so if we think about personality it shapes the way we see the world shapes our perceptions Shapes our reactions and shapes our behaviors And that constellation and if we kind of think about okay, how does a personality form? It's a series of experiences So when when you were seven years old and when I was seven years old on the basketball court we dribbled And we got made fun of and so that was painful But when we saw our mom's friends They would pinch our cheek and say oh, we're so cute And we became comfortable with that sort of thing so as we have these experiences we lay down like Algorithms to deal with the world and that Collection of algorithms forms our personality Is there a layer above Sure Um, I would say that personality is sort of like deep set, right? so it's kind of like programming at the algorithmic level and above that is sort of the Individual experience at a given time. So if you look at the mind there's the true self Then there's sort of like the deep mind which has personality and then you have a surface mind which will have things like thoughts Emotions things like that because an individual thought is not personality. It is built up from Personality it arises from personality So that's what I would say is on the surface. Do you have a guy in your head that you talk to? Um not anymore Really? Yeah, what do you got up there? What's rattling around? First of all, I wouldn't say it's down up there. I'd say it's down there So I used to talk to myself right I used to like and now what I found is like I would say there's a Signal that I can tune into is the way I would describe it that has Everything so it doesn't say specific things. It always has what I need to know. I just have to tune into it I Think I'm gonna go down there Where is it all the way at the bottom it's what I would call the self Down there, so I talked to myself. I like talking to myself. I like being in my own head a lot I think it's fun. I think I got some good thoughts and I'm honestly I stump myself a lot And I like I like thinking is should I have a should I have a guide down there too? You do Listen, or that person doesn't talk to you. It's kind of weird, but let me put it this way So when you're talking to yourself or are the both sides like, you know, there's one side that's like Putting stuff out and I don't know. This is gonna make no sense. So now we're back to our conversation two years ago So when you're talking to yourself, they're not at the same level. Does that make sense? It's like one person is pitching and one person is responding. Yeah Yeah, it's a back and forth Yeah, but but if you kind of think about it One of y'all is doing the pitching and one of y'all is always doing the responding. That's true, right? So it's not actually like a dialogue between equals. It's like, uh, i'm gonna toss something your way to accept or reject It's almost like a conversation between a parent and a child one of y'all is more mature and knowledgeable. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay I can buy so the pitcher is at the Is at a higher level of mind and the reason that you have a response down below right like you can test your like You can pitch yourself an idea and you can conclude whether it is right or wrong But that conclusion has to come from a place of greater knowledge because you're passing judgment So there's a part of you that right Yeah, I think so and through dialogue What you're really trying to do is it's the person up here who needs to understand Let me forget about that for a second. Let's make me make one point. So the person of who makes the judgment Is actually deeper than the person who does the pitching and you're one step closer to the self who has all the answers That's how that dude knows so much Right. There's a dude below that dude that knows even more. Yep So you just you cut the middle man Not always but but I I think what I found is that They kind of get sandwiched. I would sort of say Because I like asking tough questions to myself about like My intentions why I did certain things what my goals were from those things Were they am I honest even in my own head about my goals of those things? And so on so forth So that's usually like some of the conversations I have in my mind Ludwig when you ask yourself a tough question, where does the answer come from? My little guy Which little guy? I don't know. He's in my head. I think Is it the top or the middle or the bottom or what? I don't know. I've always thought of him as just like he's stationed in my head like he's he's at the top I think Okay, so he's stationed in your head. Yeah, he's stationed there, right, but it's not you it's like this other person Well, I guess it's also me sure no, no, no, no, no, no, no, okay. No, Jesus. No, hold on So this is where you got to be careful So you have to don't when you say something that is like the words that your brain is using to accurately represent your experience Just because it doesn't make any fucking sense don't go back on it Okay, right because that's how you actually won't learn if you stay attached to your old perception Or your conception of how things should be you won't actually learn but you said he is in my head So who is the eye the eye is the ego the eye is the personality that other dude isn't part of your ego or personality You talk to him Right. Does he know more than you or less than you? I think he knows more absolutely. He's pretty good. He's very good Like a thing i'll do a lot is I do uh conversation shadow boxing And he always knows what the other person's gonna say Mm-hmm And he's pretty good at it. He's very good. Yeah, why is he so good? Because he's omniscient Oh fucker Okay Right, otherwise, like how would he have these answers like you ask him tough questions? Yeah And it's not and this is also now we get into real subtle stuff If you ask a tough question and he doesn't have the right answer You may think he's not knowledgeable enough, but you just can't hear him. That's been my experience of it You can't really tune into what he has to say This happened to me this past week Because I had a question tough question And I doubted his answer And then I called my mom and then she made me reassured in his answer See, he fucking knows He was right. He was right, but it felt bad I'll give you the example. So I I have my valorant team and they are in Uh playoffs to make it to Basically the pros it's like the the most important match of their life. I've watched every single game they've done so far One of the playoff matches could potentially collide with the date of a wedding of one of my best friends in high school Now we've we've uh, not talked as much recently. We've talked like I can count on on our my hand How many times we've talked in the past? like eight years um But I had a decision which is either sign up to go to this wedding and if you sign up an rsvp for wedding That's like a few hundred dollars for the person. It's not something you can flake on very easily and potentially like miss The game which would be devastating because I really care about this team or Say no to going to the wedding risking perhaps not even having a conflict of interest because my team either already made it through or got eliminated So I was like I this was the decision I was weighing it was very difficult decision And then the guy was like well, you gotta rep the team but then me I was like well I feel really bad like I feel like I am bailing on a friend. I feel like Interpersonal relationships is the real value in life and I'm I'm ditching this opportunity for online video games and stream and work And I should prioritize people around me. So I was like that those were that's the the battle that I was having and and so I like Uh was debating debating debating debating eventually I called my mom and she was like she was like She was like, well, what do you think and I was like, well I told her what the little guy said She's like decisions been made there's no need to stress about it. Why are you stressing about a decision that's been made? It's only going to make you more anxious and eat you up inside just be happy with that decision that you made and I was like You're actually spitting bars Okay So when you didn't listen to the guy you were asking me what's above that right when you didn't listen to the guy What did you experience? Oh, uh doubt insecurity. So what are those? fear Yeah, the fears those are all emotions, right? So emotions. So this is where you asked me what's above the personality personality That's where your emotions and thoughts are Below that is this dude? Yeah, so what's kind of interesting is the dude doesn't really experience emotion No, isn't that weird? Yeah, he can be a dick Okay Because he's I feel like he's less compassionate because he doesn't experience emotion Does he tell you to be compassionate at times Perhaps I don't know if I'd necessarily go to him for that. I think I maybe default on it I don't know. I haven't thought that deep. Okay. Yeah, so something to think about so I think we've left some people in the dust So let me just let's take a step back great and understand a couple things. So I think it's a great question I think the question to start with is when you talk to yourself, who are you talking to? And are those just two parts of yourself so we can say that yeah, they're two parts of me But this kind of goes back to this like okay. What is you there's a part of you that Does not change right? That's how you know, you're always you and if you want to know what the fundamental quality of that is It is your capacity to experience stuff That's what never changes over the course of your life You can always taste food you can always feel pain you can always feel pleasure all of those all of the inputs may change But there is a certain receiver that is always capable of receiving stuff And this was kind of what what decart kind of figured out right? So he was like cogito ergo sum So how do I know I exist? There's something here that exists And his philosophical proof he was like well Sometimes there are things like you know trickery and hallucinations and the devil may put thoughts into my head But at the end of the day, there is something here that is experiencing life So does that experiencer which is the real self? And when we get grounded in that then we become true stoics Because now we can just experience things without attachment And this may sound kind of weird like what how could it be possible to enjoy feeling sad? for example but we enjoy feeling sad all the time like you watch a sad movie and Yeah, I love the sad music and like it's like oh my god So it's kind of weird because in our society we think that negative emotions are the same as suffering or pain. They're not And it's our ability to even and i've seen this with like cancer patients and stuff where they're like, yeah You know like life is such a gift and like cancer has made me like see the world and you kind of alluded to this When you're like it'll all work out maybe not in the way that you think So that truest self once we get to that truest self We are kind of at peace. We're tranquil. We're stoic Really interesting thing is that psychedelics things like ketamine move us in that direction that's why Some of these novel things that are being investigated in psychiatry are so effective because they don't work At the same level that like an antidepressant medication works that works at the level of like thoughts in emotions We're literally going to give you a mood stabilizer That will shut down or numb or decrease the activity of the part of your brain that experiences emotion It's a completely different layer of treatment So between the self and our thoughts and our emotions which are up here is this weird thing in the middle Which we could call personality or ego or things like that. We have this sense of identity I think they're even layer sub layers there and so when you're talking to yourself, it's kind of weird because you have this experience where there's like They're not on the same level Like one of y'all is giving the answers and one of y'all is like asking the questions And it's not that the person can always give the answers but that realization like we also see this is kind of a light bulb in our head Where does that realization come from? You had all the information before Yeah And so that's kind of like what we're talking about here is that self dialogue is like getting deeper and deeper into the self And the more you connect to the self the more it stops becoming a conversation And there's only right That's what you're referencing is that you're just listening to the self as opposed to having a back and forth Do you miss having a back and forth? Sometimes it's fine. I think I probably on some level will have a back and forth But it's very mild or I don't think that I miss it I just kind of work my way through it kind of on my own It's kind of weird. I don't yeah, I just experience it differently Yeah Chad, are you still with us? How you doing? Don't do ketamine Yeah, so you know all these psychedelics and stuff people really do need to be careful because everyone hears about these great stories and stuff, but Uh people need to really understand that a lot of this stuff even if you don't use it as medicine In spiritual traditions, you have people who are like trained guides and and I saw a At I was at the american psychiatric association conference this past weekend and um There were actually a lot of like studies and case reports of like really bad things happening from like psychedelics Studies on like microdosing and all this kind of crap which microdosing I think is probably a bad idea Yeah, that's what all the silken valley people do or at least I hear them doing Like all the big ceos Yeah, I think it's bad That's fair What about that one drug they talk about that one What's it called? The one that makes you not eat the wonder drug Uh, yeah, there was there was recently um Omexa. Yeah, it starts with an o right. It reduces appetite I think uh, so here's the big takeaway with wonder drugs When we have a wonder drug, it's called a wonder drug because it seems to work really really really really great So they're like, you know, one of the first wonder drugs we had was like fluoxetine or prozac And it was like wow, this has really amazing things. But generally speaking what happens over time is as we collect data What we discover is that the wonder drug is not quite as wondrous as we originally thought And part of the reason for that is that the original so there's this interesting clause Where when you're trying to get a drug through the fda and I could be wrong here because i'm not an expert in this stuff You have to register Every trial that you do on your drug But you don't have to report the results of every trial to the fda So what I can do is do 16 drug trials And only report three of them to the fda and then the approval process is based on that And then what we're sort of seeing usually what we see with wonder drugs is that early on the data is not that comprehensive And the other problem that we see with wonder drugs is that They're originally used not with everyone. There's like a selection bias with who uses wonder drugs So for example who in the united states anyway, who can get prescribed wonder drugs people who have good insurance? And so people who have good insurance are more likely to have better outcomes Because they're more likely to have jobs. They're more likely to have money. They're more likely to have other kinds of medical care so there's all kinds of other advantages that they have that correlate with the wonder drug They're also more likely if someone is prescribing the wonder drug. What does that say about their doctor? It says that their doctor is staying up to date with the latest advancements and isn't practicing on outdated models Which means that that in of itself is probably like a doctor who's going to be more effective And so over time the efficacy of most wonder drugs tends to drop But I think it suppresses hunger right it increases satiety signals Yes, and I think it also Or at least like there's a study that it suppresses addiction and so I think that's why people have been more calling it the wonder drug um Penicillin is a wonder drug Penicillin is a wonder drug That one did not fail us No, that's a true wonder drug Yeah, and peyote Yeah, and peyote So I suspect that the psychedelics are gonna be Uh in the one in the real revolutionary category, which I think ssri's sort of are I think anyway, yeah Probably I was mostly making a meme, but I do want to do acid because steve jobs did it But i've never done it I think acid is probably one of the most dangerous psychedelics you can do i've seen the worst outcomes. Huh? It's hard. What do you mean hard like it's like that's hard like it's some tough shit you're doing that's badass It's like a harder drug yeah, but that's not good it's more damaging riskier High risk high reward no. Oh, this is the thing high risk High reward reward But of reward Yeah, but you may get reward with other things Okay Right, like this is the other thing we got to be careful about right? Sure. Not everything. It's like Not everything is balanced in real life Yeah, I see what you mean Not everything that is high risk is necessarily equally high reward. Yes. In fact, most things that are high risk are just stupid So this also there's a really interesting cognitive bias that the cost of something So human beings determine the value of something based on the cost of something We determine the value it's not intrinsic. I mean, it's not independent. So two really interesting studies You can take a group of sommeliers and wine experts And if you ask them to rate a group of wines They will agree on which wines are better and which wines are worse If you blind them to the price they still agree they say that some wines are good and some wines are bad But the quality does not correlate to the price If the people If the people are not good at the price they're not good at the price The quality does not correlate to the price if the people so high quality can be cheap and Expensive can be crappy. There's like the sommeliers will still all agree with each other, but yes There was a consensus on which wines are good, but that the good wines don't correlate with price If you take sommeliers and wine experts and you don't blind them to price They all also uniformly agree, but they agree that the most expensive or most famous wines are the best Um, they're biased by the price. Mm-hmm price is a great Metric for quality if you're lazy or yes ignorant. Yes, not lazy I mean, that's the way your brain works. It's efficient Right laziness and efficiency is the same thing. Yeah, maybe not lazy, right? So as human beings we value things that other human beings value Alphas talk about this a lot, right? Yeah, sexual marketplace value there's truth to that. Yeah Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah So it and that's the thing is we think okay, like if something is high risk, that means that it must like be better No, like Yeah, that it'd be cool though. It'd be cool to coin flip for for like having one of those gigabrains like in uh, Limitless or if you fail the coin flip you're brain dead Yeah, so I think that as a culture and especially as men we have been We have normalized risk taking is something that's valuable Right because like it's dope. Yeah, like so if you survived hard shit that makes you more of a man So i'm gonna but I I think I don't know if it necessarily makes you more of a man I do think surviving hard shit can give you experiences you couldn't otherwise Get though Yeah, which has value to your life as a whole But I wouldn't necessarily wish it on anyone Right. So like speaking of which there's like transformative experiences through trauma but if you want to like You know Make something of your life. I would not recommend traumatizing yourself as a way to do it I think some amount of some amount of Of Difficult experiences and putting yourself through that is good But that's my whole point is like there's like difficult experiences that you choose like going on a hike or like hiking the appalachian trail Or for me, it was hiking so I like went to the himalayas and things like that But do you like is everest in the himalayas? Yes, but I didn't hike to everest. I just I just went to the foothill area Still tight and and yeah, that was part of the spiritual journey Because it's not legit unless you go to the himalayas right you got to have the social cred you got to have the social proof Yeah, that is social cred for sure Do you do you think of yourself as smart? Do I think of myself as smart Uh I acknowledge I don't think of myself as smart, but i'm pretty I mean I I am smart. I know that But I don't think of myself as a smart person So Chad do you think you're smart? I like to think i'm dumb I think it makes me feel better I don't like to think of myself as smart Yeah, so one of the big things that I kind of Discovered was I had a weird Ego around humility Where I would not acknowledge the things that I was actually good at because I thought it made me egotistical and so what I realized is I actually have an ego of like I'm gonna be the humblest person in the room bitches like look at me like I trained at harvard medical school and i'm not even gonna call myself smart I'm gonna call myself average and that makes me more humble and then I was like that's Egotistical like that's silly. I'm trying to no if i'm I mean I'm not dumb I can be done harvard that's hard to get into it is I thought you were saying that you didn't apply yourself in high school. I didn't I did you go to harvard? So I finished college. I went to ut and I finished college with a 2.5 gpa And then I spent three years applying to med school Got rejected 120 times Finally got into tufts university school of medicine and then did my psychiatry training at harvard Yeah Yeah, that's tight So I think it's like yeah, like i'm i'm smart. It's not ego. It's I don't think of myself like oh my god I'm smarter than this person. Therefore. I should write them but like you know I think it's it's stupid and falsely egotistical to not acknowledge what my strengths and weaknesses are some things i'm good at i've given some I spawned Right. It's rng where you spawn. Yeah, I was given some buffs and I was given some buffs debuffs Do you feel I feel like I know so little That's why maybe I feel like i'm dumb Yeah, I mean, I I think I I I know but knowledge and intelligence are two different things Yeah, people always say that I know it's like a classic saying I don't really know the difference between the two That's what makes you dumb Thank you doc, thank you doc Thank you doc I couldn't is that is that okay? That's great. When you see the opportunity you got a strike you get one chance No, but I mean, I mean I I think that uh Um, what were we talking about again? so There's a difference between intelligence and being smart and I or knowledge and being smart people always like knowledge is like what you know And I guess smart is like maybe how you like you navigate certain situations or whatever and like your ability to critically think But I isn't your ability to critically think also just built off of what you know Anyway, like doesn't it circle back anyway, like isn't it just the collection of all the things that you've learned? Which is knowledge? They get aren't they one of the same in a way Yeah, so that that's a really good point that the more you learn the more your critical thinking is improved Is what you're saying, right? Yeah, so so I I think what we kind of know is that So let's look at physicians for example If you measure the iq of a group of doctors You'll have a span right like some are going to be super high iq some are going to be like actually average iq But if you look at the competency of performance of doctors We have a training that we go through so mine was you know, four years and about 10 to 15 000 hours Of like psychiatric training and I had really good teachers and so I learned I accumulated a lot of knowledge My intelligence did not change from the start of residency to the end of residency. What changed is my acquisition of a particular skill set Like I may have trained at harvard medical school, but I still fucking suck at dota like i'm i'm terrible Right, so competence in a particular field or expertise in a particular field One is I would say I would say it this way one is stats and one is like skill levels I don't know if you've played dnd Sure. Yeah, I play dnd once in my day, right? So like you've got a stat and then you've got like your proficiencies or your skills and like what's your skill bonus? That's what I would say is the difference between knowledge and and stats and the big problem with society is that we overvalue stats and undervalue skills Oh Really? Yes But it's easier I think to improve on your skills than it is your stats absolutely which is why it's a real let me interesting statistics So, you know what mensa is? Yes That's the gene No, that's the group of the genius. Yeah the genius test So in order to join mensa, you have to actually have an iq in the top two percent of the population Okay So, let me ask you a question. How much money do you think the top? One percent of mensa you take the smart the best earners not the smartest The best earners in mensa how much money do you think they make a year top one percent of earners in mensa? an organization of geniuses Okay. Well, you're asking because it's a trick. Yeah, absolutely I would I would have normally answered 600k average. Okay, it's 250k Okay You take the top one percent of earners in the united states Average just the whole population, right? We're not pre-selecting for geniuses What is the top one percent of earners in the u.s? Annually? Yeah. Okay. I think like nine percent are millionaires. I would go with Uh 1.2 Yeah, it's over a million. Okay, right for sure I mean there's weird statistics some studies look at household incomes. So it could be a double income So and there's also half percent versus one percent, but the ballpark is over a million So you take normal people and right so some of them may be smart But you can take the most lucrative people out of a group of geniuses and it's 250k You just take one percent of the general population. There's all kinds of problems with this analysis You could say well maybe mensa selects for people the people who join mensa are the ones who aren't successful Outside of life. That's kind of a burn at mensa, but there are other there are problems with the statistic But I think one of the big things that we've learned Is that iq doesn't count for nearly as much as we think it does Or they're so smart. They've gone above the need for capital And they realize that is a waste of their pursuits. That is that is definitely a possibility I don't think that's the case. Okay, fair. That's fair. I think that what we've and this is the real tragedy Is that we have a we've grown up Telling kids that giftedness means you should succeed Yes without really and then what happens is since they're gifted. We don't even teach these skill kids the the skills that they need Right. So I was asking my mom the other day like I read with my kids and I was asking my mom like hey Did y'all ever do homework with us? And you know, I I don't remember that you guys ever like read to us or did homework or anything like that And she's like no I was like, why not? I wasn't being accusatory or anything. She's a great mom. She's like well You guys like never had problems. So we never thought we needed to do anything And so what I realized is I was never taught how to study And so what happened is like once I got to college like I could brute force my way through like maybe Algebra, but you can't brute force your way through pre-calculus. You need to understand like work ethic You're telling me d minus in that class. I really thought I could brute force it No, you can't and we were never taught study skills So now we have this crop of kids who we've told because you're smart. You should be successful And we don't actually equip them to succeed. That's the big tragedy Yeah, and then they end up feeling ashamed of themselves because they're like I should be succeeding whereas they don't understand actually like the deck was stacked against you So if we glorified Skills as much as we did stats then perhaps people would pursue it more Or know how to pursue it more and that would make them more proficient in things in their life That's one part of it I think the other part is we'd have a host of people who have high iq or who are not filled with Filled with shame because we as a society have not taught them that this is sufficient for your success If you are smart, you should be successful that societal thing will be Lifted from all of these kids, which I think would be huge for them I do think they should teach Work ethic I don't teach that me too I wouldn't quite call it. Yeah, go ahead. What do you call it? What's a work ethic is a is a amalgamation of different things So I think Uh, sure you can teach people habit formation But I think teaching people concentration Is a key part of work ethic All right. So what is work ethic? Maybe work ethic is discipline, but yeah Work ethic isn't just discipline discipline implies that You are almost overcoming a natural impulse But people who have good work ethic have a combination of discipline being able to overcome their natural impulses have a combination of habits Have a combination of like supportive environment and have some skill at focusing And then there's also two other parts of that one is emotional awareness and the ability to manage your emotions Because procrastination is tied to your emotions Work ethic and procrastination are kind of at odds And the last thing is some kind of introspection because the best work ethic comes out of like not fulfilling societal expectations But having your goals, like you said i'm going to pick one goal a year and that helps me It's about what do I want and then you can align your work ethic behind your intention So I think work ethic is like a combination of stuff but yeah, right down your goals, huh, do you write down your goals? Do you have any major goals? No, no goals. Yeah. Wow Is there a reason or just you don't go? Yeah, I I find that So I think a goal is is a little bit more as an outcome expectation Yeah, right. It's either meet it or don't meet it. So what I tend to have is like a direction and an intention Okay, so I can't achieve a goal. This is something I learned like doing addiction psychiatry People are like, yeah, I want to be sober for a year. You can't be sober for a year You can be sober for a day. You can be sober for a moment. That's all you can do. You can never be sober for a year And so in that same way, it's like, okay, what do I want to work on? I have things that I work on But I can't get to that step unless I have a goal It's hard for me to write the intention to get to the goal without knowing the goal that i'm trying to get to Yeah, so I think it's useful to have some kind of target to move towards but It's kind of weird, but I don't So I have like a I guess that's a goal So, you know, i'll intentionally try to do something like i'll put together a lecture on trauma, but I don't for me, I I guess maybe I just have a The word goal Can be unhealthy for me That's fair I think it can yeah The big paradox is like when I went to med school So both of my parents are sorry when I went to college I was pre-med and both of my parents were doctors And so I was like a good little indian kid I was going to become a doctor and where did I want to go? I wanted to go to harvard because that's where all the smart indian kids go and I was a smart indian kid And then chasing that goal like made me fail out of college because it was all about ego Right and then paradoxically I didn't care about going there. I was just like, okay Like i'm going to try to become a doctor for you know for me and like it's a good thing to do and I want to learn about the body And then went to med school and just did a really great job when I wasn't focused on being number one I didn't care about being number one I was just I want to like learn how a human being works And put all of my energy into that now is that a goal I it doesn't have a target. It's like I want to learn as much as I can about people And it turns out that that's what led to the best my best performance It's like when guys a lot of guys are always like well not oh, this is a little like a Blunt way to say it but guys I think are interested in getting a mate and getting and finding a girl or a guy or whatever they want and uh, And I think the less you focus on that and the more you focus on like, you know, just not pursuing that I think the more attractive you become for a partner. So it's like a paradoxical thing. That is like the story of my life So I went to india at the age of 21 And then um had a string of just terrible Relationships or even if you can call them relationships like for my first two years of college and then decided to become a monk So I came back from india and I was like i'm going to be celibate And then completely like I don't care about women anymore like i'm gonna be celibate and then like I met this girl And I asked her I guess I didn't actually ask her out on a date. She thinks I asked her I didn't ask her. I was just like hey you want to hang out sometime? Okay. Yeah, so she insists we were dating I don't I don't know. I mean I didn't you refute this. Yeah Um in retrospect, I think she's probably objectively correct like the signals all correlate with dating like but in my mind we weren't dating I was just And you know ended up being my girlfriend and ended up being my wife and it was like really bizarre So started getting a lot more female attention and then I got like married and then I was like, okay So like now there's no, you know, it's fixed i'm done And so then when I interacted with women it was like there's no possibility of anything that i'm never gonna have an affair Or anything like that. I'm not interested in that crap. So then and then suddenly like women were like interested in me And I was like, what the fuck? Yeah And so now I actually actively avoid women who express anything like romantic interest The key to finding someone Is to start celibate The incels would disagree Well, that's involuntary Voluntary celibate. I I don't know also that's a thing, right? Yeah, I don't know. That's just a celibate, right? Yeah, I think there's a Term called ball sale though. I think that's real or that's a character in hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy either way I think it's a real thing. But I don't know. I mean there's There's a lot there Yeah, but yeah, I mean I I do think that getting out of your own head So when you prioritize a goal like here's kind of what I found is that you put so much pressure on yourself You're trying to live up to it. You kind of mentioned with I think with your valorant team that Y'all are like growth oriented instead of the outcome oriented So I think goals make it easy to slip into that outcome mindset And then if you're like talking to a girl you're like in your head. Does she like me? Does she not like me instead? You're not having a good time And you're not present And then that becomes less fun because half of your cognition Is like watching the replay? Of this game while it's happening instead of playing the game And then you suck at the game because you're analyzing it constantly instead of just playing Yeah, you're too worried about if you're choking the bag to focus on getting the bag Yeah, I think it's I'd be dumb to say that we're not all Aware of our goal for the valorant team like there is a clear goal. There is a like everyone has it everyone in the league It's the same thing. Everyone wants to go up to the next step But to say that it is a failure if you don't achieve that goal be dumb And I think there's like a lot of successes to like celebrate And I'm very aware that this team won't last for You know, probably five years probably ten years, you know, like the people will move on they'll find different teams They may quit valorant altogether And so I'd be it'd be more successful if this was a great part of their life that they remembered I think Than if we hit our goal and then the team disbanded instantly and they all hate it Or you know what I mean? Like I think it's that'd be more valuable. I think for me and them Yeah, so I think that's the kind of thing that That attitude right the paradoxical attitude and it sounds like y'all are doing well and I think those two things are related That's the biggest the biggest scam of life is that The more we want something the more our mind gets in the way of us getting it That's so hard about being human Yeah Yeah, also I do this thing sometimes or if I want something I just think of having the thing and then I feel good and then I don't try to pursue the thing I want it to be the thing I want it to be the best smash player in the world And then while practicing to be the best smash player in the world I would think about being the best smash player in the world and like what it'd be like to win And like everyone be like you're the fucking best and like holding the trophy And then that felt good and then I would stop pursuing the very long boring Tiresome road of actually doing that thing because it felt good enough to get a little crumb of what that thing was like And then you were done wanting to be the best smash player that was sufficient it was more like that crumb felt good And it didn't feel good to like, okay. Well now, you know grind tech skill for an hour and do vod highlights It was like, oh no, i'll do that crumb and then i'll just like play for funsies and so it was it was less focused in intentional practice because I think I Deluded myself or just felt good about Thinking about it and so that that was the substitute for actually working towards it So that's interesting. I mean that almost i've never heard this fascinating a lot of a few people Give me truths when I say this i've said this before So So it's interesting because I hear a lot of the converse which is that I fantasize about something and it destroys my motivation Yeah, and so what i'm wondering is actually if you've discovered a secret jutsu if you will who Which is I wonder if you can if you want to let go of a desire if you can use Fantasy to kill your motivation towards that desire and then move on to something else I know that was a lot of example give an example. So here So a lot of people like want something right? Like oh, I want a girlfriend. I want a girlfriend. I want a girlfriend and Let me think about this So I hear from a lot of people in my community that I can fantasize about something all day long But I never do anything about it. I'm not actually motivated. I don't actually pursue it I just fantasize about it. And if you look at the psychology of like why we fantasize it does help us feel good It's a coping mechanism for negative emotion and can give us some amount of positive feeling What you described, right? I can fantasize about it feel good and then no longer grind towards it But for these people they actually still want to grind towards it So it's a problem for them that I live a life of fantasy instead of actually doing something in my life There's another group of people that thinks to themselves i'm too caught up in this and I need to let myself go Like I need to let this thing go I need to give up on this thing I need to move on I broke up with my girlfriend 10 years ago, and I can't stop thinking about her or boyfriend. I can't get over this relationship I want them back. I want them back. I want them back and I don't know how to move on What i'm noticing is that fantasy for you allows you to move on? So it's a problem over here Right because you're no longer grinding towards smash. You're like often doing better things with your time Yeah And this is the first time that i'm wondering whether fantasy can be used to we can harness fantasy to move on from things Yeah, I think it's possible as long as the thing is something you're truly okay with moving on from you know and also Like I think it would be sad if you never truly tried as well Because then I think that's how you form regret So like if you just fantasized and then moved on but like then 10 years later you're like man I could have been the best smasher. I could have done whatever and you didn't actually attempt it I think that would still feel bad. I think it'd be harder. I think you need to try and fail So i'm with you about trying and failing in terms of lack of regret So I think the number one thing that leads to regret is Not giving it your all I very rarely hear people regret Things if they've really given it a fair shot The thing that i'm kind of wondering about Is when you said if you're ready to move on how do you do that? Find something new I think it's the easiest way right like I think I want it to be the best smash player in the world and then I want it to be the biggest streamer in the world And so it's like well, i'm not gonna do fucking both So I just moved on from one to the next one I feel like there's something I think there's something here that is very helpful if it can be understood. I'm not quite sure what it is Like I think there's something about your methodology which could really help people I think If everybody writes down their goal of what they want to do not like make up a goal But if you have a goal already and you write it down And then you write down intentional steps that you will make towards that goal And then you write down intentional steps that you will make towards that goal and then you give yourself a finite time to achieve Some sort of progress or at least do those steps and see what progress you make That gives you a point where you can quit Like I think having a day where you can quit and not feel bad about it is good or have a day where you have enough success That you want to keep it going, but I don't think people give them the themselves the chance to quit or keep going It's always what ifs so it's like you got to give yourself a chance to quit That's so I I just want to call out something I saw in your chat, which is that's ludwig. He's different So here's the crazy thing I think thinking that Ludwig is capable of this because he's ludwig could be one of the most devastating mistakes that we make So when we say that this person is capable of this because they are them instead of there is a technique or methodology right If we think about the best people in esports Why do they win because of them sure but there's also something that we can learn we may not be able to get to them But there may be something in their methodology and one thing that I think ludwig you may be really good at which could be You sound like you're okay with quitting Yeah, I think quitting's fine If you if I tried if I failed I I think I think that's that's big I think part of the problem that I think a lot of people get stuck in is that we don't We think of quitting is a bad thing But if you don't quit you stay stuck Yeah and Yeah, I I think you're a quitter. That's what makes you Because you can't do multiple things so you have to quit one thing to do another thing but I also think um Something that I have and I think if I have one superpower it is blind confidence And I've had that for a long time I think a lot of people When they say that's ludwig. It's maybe just a lack of confidence. I think you need confidence Where so you said you've had it for a long time. You've always had it I've had it for a while. Yeah Where do you think that confidence comes from? Ten years, I think in the philosophy that it'll all work out Because if it works out then you can be confident that the path you're taking is the right path You cannot be because I think there's a lot of like oh I should have done this like wrong choice or whatever and getting hung up on it But like if life is just a series of choices and you're always sure that it will work out Then you can be confident that you're walking the right path. I think if you're ever thinking that you're in the wrong path, it's because you either think it won't work out Or you're not confident, you know, which so if it all works out you got you can't be you can easily be confident I Ask you a question. Yeah, sure How important do you think your decisions are in shaping your future? I think it's like What do you mean? In shaping what the future is or how good the future is? In How much control do you think your decisions exert over your future? I think every decision you make is what determines your future but like How much you like the future you live in? I don't think it matters Does that make sense? like if I if I like boil it down like A decision I made one of the bigger decisions in my life was whether I stay on twitch or go to youtube And that would have changed my life dramatically either way Because I would have a very big switch and that would change my company and all my personal relationships But in either path I don't think the decision would have changed Like I don't think there was a right one like to this day I think I would have been totally fine and happy if I was still on twitch. So I don't think it determines Like how I feel about my life and what's going on? Okay, so I think this is also something that's very big So what i'm hearing so when you make a decision in your mind, are you looking for the right decision? I think i'm I like decisions that I have That no, no, I just I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know I just pick the decision. I just I'm usually pretty quick. I just pick whatever I think's right. Yeah. Yeah what I think's best So I I think a lot of the So if we're talking about confidence at the personality level What does confidence look like at the thought level and at the emotional level? Confidence like i'm confident in myself But I think that what that looks like in in the actual thoughts that you have is that you're not concerned about making the right or the wrong decision There isn't because some people go through life And in their mind there is a right decision or a wrong decision and their happiness or security is determined by the decision And since there's so much weight in the decision And since there's so much weight in the decision you're paralyzed because if you choose wrong The rest of your life is screwed. It's so deterministic There's no Adaptation there's no modification. There's no This decision is everything and what I find with people and then what happens is those people are on don't have confidence always hand in hand like The people who think that there's a critical decision For some reason that they don't I think those are two sides of the same coin And I have to think a little bit about how that precisely works out but And so I think it's really interesting because i'm sort of the same way and I think a lot of my confidence comes from I would use the word faith that things will be okay And the cultivation of faith that like actually i'm sort of powerless like I can decide what I want to but the number of variables That control what happens in my life Is so high and the number of things that I have control over is so small like You know, what's the use in stressing so i'm going to just move forward in the direction that I think I need to go and then ultimately remember that I don't determine whether i'm successful or not. All I determine is what my actions are and that's what i'm going to focus on Yeah, I think there's no wrong decisions I think that's where a lot of your confidence comes from or vice versa Yeah, yeah, I think that's dope. Yeah, I think it's dope too Chat nothing you pick in life will be wrong And if it is wrong, then you'll just pick another one and then that will probably be right And if that's wrong, you just keep going and eventually it'll work out Yeah, I think what makes things eventually work out is that you are okay making wrong decisions and you pick something else and you keep going Yeah I I Think uh, the challenge is that sometimes people get stuck and they stop moving forward But yeah smoke meth They just deal with having smoked meth And maybe you're like, oh I shouldn't smoke meth again You know, but you'll figure it out. Yeah, I mean I should gamble only if you've been on black then you should No, I mean still takes game five I would I would still make smart or as best as you can make wise decisions but Don't get too caught up in them Right be flexible Um Well, dr. K. I've had a blast likewise. This has been my balls are full of piss Great. I've been holding it in for a minute So i'm gonna go i'm gonna go piss um, and then I was gonna watch the playstation conference cool What do you got going on for the rest of the day? Uh, I gotta check my calendar. I actually don't know You have a lot of convos coming up You're talking to squeaks. I think I hope so. Yeah, I think he said he said that maybe friday I'm looking forward to it. Yeah, he's great. Yeah, I think it's gonna be great and then um, We're not sure exactly who else I think we've got like just a couple, you know one week left in may So we try to have a lot of convos, but i'm really looking forward to it and uh, yeah, thank you so much for Coming on did it go well? Did you like talking? I loved it Okay, I did too. Yeah, are you? Yeah So what what'd you think? I thought I was good. I like talking. I like learning about the little guy inside of me I think that part was the coolest for me, but I think it might have lost some people And I also like listening to what you say and then making a silly analogy out of it. I think that's always fun Uh, my favorite part of the conversation was the eye-opening revelation that everything that i've learned about trauma applies to gaming Yeah, like I didn't realize that that like all the stuff is like, oh my god, these are all trauma responses it's like man I'll send you a screenshot when I hit diamond And it'll all be because I start every lobby by going high on mudwig Dude, this also might fail as a tactic for me You got to say Anders Or yeah, dude, I get recognized because like a as like a valorant pro I'm like a big team I gotta recognize a good chunk by just talking Because my mic is a little high, you know what? I should get a shit mic That's what I should do. I should get a shit mic and I should go by Anders Well, but when people find out your ludwig, how do they respond? I know you've got balls full of piss They're always very nice. They're always very nice. They just play worse. I think they get nervous Some people play a little worse because they it's like is he live? So they go to check my stream during the game which makes them play worse And then when they if i'm usually not live But they still like have this sort of set of expectations of how should I play with ludwig now in the lobby? And so it throws them off their game a bit Which is so good. Anyway Yeah, yeah Yeah, so so it's I'd love to hear you know, if you start practicing communication Maybe we'll actually make this video because I think there's like a couple of key principles And um, it's all been illustrated like because I record every game that I play Um, and so you can you can see the when it works or doesn't work and and but anyway, yeah Thanks so much for coming on dude. And you know if there's anything that um, we can do for you, please let us know And we'll do thank you so much for talking and sharing your perspective and i've learned a lot about A lot of problems that we hear about and I think i'm gonna stew on this for a bit. So thank you and take care of it All right. Hey, how we going man? Nice talking. Peace You