 I'm good. I'm good. Wait my camera's like flicking okay. I'm not gonna lie to you. I'm like I'm definitely really nervous Okay, but I'm also excited at the same time because I've really never spoken to Like someone who is qualified ever you know so that's cool. Okay? Well, so so help me understand what you're nervous about Well um I don't know man a lot of things a lot of things um Sure more so like I know like these type of situations will definitely make me vulnerable all right And it's like being vulnerable is uh it's kind of scary. You know absolutely dude being vulnerable is terrifying. Yeah For sure and when you say these kinds of situations what what is that what? Help me understand. I'm just talking talking to someone like truthfully rather than it just being like some you know like Like most time I stream is more of just like it's a show you know it's like We're just having fun content whatever, but this is like a like a more real setting if that makes sense even though there is still Twitch chat spamming you know capas and stuff so yeah, I'm allowed to swear as well right yeah, I think so Okay, like if you don't want me to lay if you want I'm just asking you like like how you want the setting to be you know am I allowed to like be uh I'm very uh I like to swear, so I'm just yeah, I think if you want to swear. That's okay, man Okay, cool fuck all right. We're good all right, so um can you you said you haven't talked to someone who is Like a like you've never spoken to a professional about your feelings is that what you mean? Yeah, I've never really spoken to anyone man I've well I've spoken like friends and stuff obviously like I have friends that know me pretty well, but I Definitely have never spoken to a professional before and they're well That's not true one time. I did speak to or tried to speak to a psychologist Like two years ago, but I remember they were having a very hard time relating to anything I was really saying I was trying to like help them understand Like my life and like what's like bothering me and like my job and twitch chat and all this and like getting you know getting Backlash and hate and all these things and they can't like it's almost like when you get like a boomer therapist They just don't they don't quite understand any of those like dynamics right so they pretty much just say hey Yo, take this pill. You'll be good. You know so that's like is that what the psychologist said uh Well mostly everyone I've gone to is trying to put me on some type of some type of like drug Yeah, like whether it be SSRIs or for depression anxiety just like random shit like you know whatever D are you depressed or anxious? Well, I've definitely had my I've definitely had my Run-ins with anxiety and depression definitely hundred percent. I used to be very very anxious, but Recently it's been better. It's definitely been better recently Okay, what's been better recently? What's what's changed? Well, I don't know I moved to Austin like eight months ago. Is my camera flickering for you Is that just my son it's it looks good to me man Okay, that's just my side okay, so I moved to Austin eight months ago, right? I was like doing this I did this whole streamer house with a bunch of with a bunch of streamers There's like a lot of girls. We had like a big mansion or whatever and we were all streaming everything was going good I don't know it's like when I'm streaming and like when I'm like like popping off on twitch It almost feels as though My problems like it's like I'm distracting myself from my own mind And I'm just like grinding if that makes sense But then as soon as I ditch and the cameras off and I'm just Mitch and whatever David in the mirror Then I have to like truly see myself for who I am and it's like I have a lot of baggage inside They're just like sits there. You know and like sure I Haven't really found a good way of releasing those things even though I've been looking for those Looking for those releases like for a long time now You know I took like a year off to wish like two years ago to just kind of try and find myself And all I really found was a bunch of pain And I was just like super fucked up, and I kept trying all these like weird diets like I well I was like the skinniest like I lost so much weight And I was just trying all this crazy shit to see how if I could like fix my mind or whatever And it's just like I don't know I feel like Go ahead, sir No, I mean it sounds like you've got a lot to say man keep going. Oh trust me man. Yeah, there is a yes There's a lot to talk about help me understand So help me understand when you when when the camera is off and you look in the mirror And you see this guy David is your name. That's you yeah, yeah, my name is yeah. Yeah, my birth name is David Yeah, okay, so when you see David tell me tell me what you see in the mirror Well, you know I just see a man who's been literally like trying so hard to just like Play this like twitch like weird circus game for like 10 years You know I've been doing this forever right like I've been on twitch before it was like a YouTube cloud chasing Reacting shithole that it is today You know I feel like twitch like seven years ago was actually just gamers chilling And it was way different now than this like cloud chasing boomer or whatever Zoomer fucking platform that's become and not only that not only the zoomers infiltrating It's also gotten a lot more strict right since Amazon and all that bought it out blah blah blah like you know It was kind of like the Wild West back in the day You could just like do your thing and like that was it you know and it's just it's changed a lot so Tell me tell me what you see when you look in the mirror When I look in the mirror I see a broken human being that has been living a persona for ten years and to like I've always been real and tried to be real with my viewers, but that also like I think opens me up to a lot of scrutiny and Truthfully like I think that I'm very fucking broken of a human But I like I don't really like to show well I do show that part of me, but nobody really wants to listen to that right like nobody wants to go like Listen to somebody bitching about their broken self you know what? What about you is broken? Pretty much everything my identity like I've everything I've done has been a fucking lie man like that's how I view it anyway Right like like cool. I was famous. I was making hella money like whatever right like I had some hot girls like I did All the things you would think would make you feel like like complete or whatever the fuck but truly I felt so dead inside and like I still like I don't know like I just still feel that way But I know that like I can't really let that person win like I kind of just have to keep going on With the circus you know wait hold on, but how is that strategy working for you so far? You know I really don't I really don't know I really don't know man Sounds like I honestly don't know sounds like grinding is not working for you But like I have no other option. You know like if I don't make twitch work like I'm truly screwed so Yeah, man, so so I don't think that I don't think you have to quit twitch I'm just saying that it sounds like you're not taking care of yourself So it sounds like you like you're thinking in terms of black and white like either you you quit twitch And then that means that like this the other part of you wins Or you keep doing what you're doing like it seems like very like black and white to me Yeah, that's kind of I'm that's just that's how I am. I'm kind of like all or nothing. You know yeah I've always been that way, but what do you think about that I? Don't know I think that that's just like hardwired in me like I'm either in or I'm out You know like I can't do this like like what do you call it when you like good at everything? Like you're good at balance. I'm terrible at that like like I'm pretty much Just like in one thing and that's all I think about and I just grind that forever Or I'm out and I'm doing something else right like balance thing I suck at like keeping a schedule maintain like if you suck at something. What is that? What does that mean for you like does that is you're just you are this way? You're hardwired. It's it's not possible to change or is it like help me understand Well, it could be possible to change. I've I've I've definitely tried. I swear. It sounds like you've tried a lot Oh, I've tried so hard so fucking hard man like that. I see that wrong with me I have like an action deficit disorder where like I cannot act on the things that I understand because like a lot of people think that I'm just like stupid, but like I Kind of understand most social dynamics and like like the things I need to do I understand them it just it's very hard for me to act on those things and like I don't know no matter How hard I want to do it? I just have trouble doing it You know and I beat myself up over it so hard. So okay, buddy now. We're getting somewhere, okay? So if you want to do something and you're unable to do it, how the fuck does that work? I? Don't know you tell me I have no idea Like what do you think man like so if I have an intention if I'm a human being and I have an intention What are the things that influence? My behavior right so if I want to do something like let's say I want to get out of bed in the morning What are the things that influence whether I get out of bed because what happens is sometimes it sounds like you your? Behaviors are not aligned with your intentions That is very true. Yes, and recently I've tried to like I have this thing We're like one day. I'll wake up, and I'm like alright I'm gonna fix it all right And then I'll like go hard for a month And I'll really like be normal like I'll be really making progress toward my life for like one month and then Something happens, and I'm just I'm just off and it just I lose all progress That is that is a terrible strategy my friend So let me because I think what you're doing is so I think you're using you're just using vast reserves of willpower To overcome things within you, and then you just run out of steam. Oh Yeah, no the burnout is real hundred percent. Yeah, yeah, so like burnout is not a sustainable way to change your life, right? Like like you're overcoming stuff in order to try to is you I mean you're using a lot of this like language like grind Right like so grinding to me is just like streaming every day and trying to like you know be trying good streamer You know yeah, yeah So you just you just you just use like vast amounts of just willpower and raw energy to overcome whatever kind of like Tornado of shit is going on inside you. Oh, yeah, yeah I like to just push all of that away and just focus on the goal you know yeah, so I don't think that that's like I Think that strategy can be very successful, but I think it's gonna leave you tortured and broken Well, I've been that way my whole life, so I really don't know what it's like to be whole and not broken like yeah Truthfully like and I'm not saying that to like you know boohoo me But like I have had a weird a weird life like I've had a great life, but also we're about your life Where do you want me to start I? Don't know Well, there's a lot There's truly a lot like it like there's a lot of things that we could talk about man Like I don't know if you know the history of like twitch Tell me about like About me and my twitch stuff or like me just me just tell me about you you Okay, well, I'm a dude. I was born in Baltimore, Maryland, okay? Yeah, I'm 27 years old now, so I'm you know getting to the late bloomer stages I went to I have like a weird family situation very strange family situation my my mother was diagnosed with a brain cancer when I was like 16 and She had like a stroke and multiple surgeries, and she's like paralyzed on her left side, and you know it's done It's oh, it's it's been the worst thing ever because my mom was truly like the one person that Actually loved me for like who I am You know what I mean like I truly loved my mom unconditionally and I pretty much lost her like eight years ago like lost her mentally she's still she's still doing great and fighting cancer, but She lost a huge piece of herself because they had to remove like I think I think it was like 20% of her frontal cortex To keep her alive, so she lost like a lot of her personality and a lot You know what I mean like it yeah, it's almost like a Alzheimer's thing like don't remember She's just not that she's not all all there all there. Yeah all there anymore Yeah, and I've had to watch her deteriorate over the last like eight years or so what does that someone oh? It's killed me honestly because I've had nowhere to turn like my father has always been kind of like a hard-ass like my dad's like A very successful like lawyer businessman whatever like he's just been that kind of guy like he sent me to private school my whole life Like I've been spoiled in that regard like money and whatever like I come from a pretty wealthy family but my dad never gave me like like the Like he never filled the shoes of my mom if that makes sense sure of course Yeah, he never did and I never felt like me and my dad have never like hugged or said I love you or any that like there's none of that like I don't feel like I have that relationship with my father I don't think I've ever had that relationship with my father and There's actually some really deep things that I could get into you about about like like there's a lot of fucked up things I've gone on in my family But honestly I don't want to like air that on the internet if you wanted to talk like privately about that Talk about whatever you're comfortable with man Yeah, yeah, no, I mean, I'm normally comfortable with telling I'm normally comfortable with like talking openly. I just don't want to like say some You know what I mean? Sure. Well, yeah, so that that's pretty much my family situation. I have a brother as well I have a brother. Yeah, I do Yeah, he he was he has a Asperger syndrome. He's like pretty autistic and he was also born with a face Deformation like he his jaw never grew properly so it grew like very crooked and he used to get like made fun of in school and like Younger he's an older brother older brother. Yeah, and he's he's very different very different you know like you've met people with autism right like they're they have very trouble like a lot of trouble socially and My brother's very smart. Honestly, like he's very good at art He used to kick my ass and halo back in the day like like straight He was just amazing at everything he did like and it just sucks that he knew when my mom got sick He never really got that support anymore and he kind of went down the deep end and he now lives in like assisted living And and I feel really bad for him man. Like I really do I feel really bad for him the last time I saw him I think he's doing okay but let's just say if I had If I was actually good enough to get my shit together and I didn't really lose everything that I that I had going for me I probably would have like, you know taking care of him and maybe my mom as well Which is a lot of burden for me But I felt like that was the right play and I truly regret that I fucked up this whole twitch thing Because I really could have been in a position to help my family and I feel like I let that I just fucked up man for my own selfish reasons because I wanted to you know, whatever fuck around and be an idiot, you know No, I don't what does that mean? It means that I got so carried away in This shit when I could have just looked at it as a means to help my family instead I looked at it as a means to feed my own ego and you know date hot girls and Whatever spend a lot of money on shit I don't need and you know what I mean like that kind of stuff like meet a bunch of fake friends that tell me I'm Pretty when really they they don't give a fuck and they just you know, whatever they wanted was just not so you For that. Oh 100% I blame myself for that. I'm stupid. It's not that I'm even stupid It's that I was being selfish and I I always knew the right play and it's just it's easier said than done, you know Yeah, so so help me understand that I'm a little bit confused if it's easier said than done then why so much blame? Because I could have done it man, you know, why do you think that Why do I think I could have done it yeah because I could I know I could have I could have actually made which a positive thing for me and helped my family and You know, I've been a support But how do you think that? I Just think I could have done it had I understand I understand you think you could have done it That much is clear to me. What I'm understanding is where did you get the idea that you could have done that? I Don't know. I guess when I thought about it long enough. I realized I was chasing the wrong things and Maybe I couldn't have done it. Yeah, maybe right maybe maybe I need to go through the shit that I went through or something Yeah, I mean this I was just about to say cuz it sounds like you know You spent some time reflecting and thinking about the choices. Yeah. Yeah, like I said a year ago My year ago like I learned a lot a year ago I like I said I stopped I stopped streaming and I actually moved in with my mom for a while and I was just like They're taking care of her and I was living a very slow life for a while Like I pretty much took a step back from all of twitch all of that for a long time and I was like Doing like I was meditating every day. I was trying all these new diets I was doing whatever I could to fix my broken self like straight up I was trying everything you name it. I was on the internet constantly like self-improvement blah blah blah like meditation exercise Sleep schedule this that eat these vegetables. You'll be good eat this fucking multivitamin. You'll be good, right? and I just realized that like there's so much deep down pain inside of myself that To get to that sense of like enlightenment and feeling light and free it's gonna take years and years and years of work and in my opinion which I really don't have right now because quite frankly like I put myself in a position where I am Pretty much screwed unless I continue to grind like, you know, I recently it's gonna take years and years and years for you to be So you can be fixed. Let's start I can be fixed But what I would need it is a stress-free environment where I can actually work on myself, right? I That's one way to do it, but I think that too is once again your black-and-white thinking Right. So you think that that fixing yourself is a full-time job that you can't do anything else during either You're grinding or you're fixing yourself Yeah What? Yeah, that's true. I Think that I I wish I could balance things man. I really do Yeah, so if something someone doesn't know how to balance things What do we do for them? Like so let's say that I'm talking I'm working with a 15 year old kid Who has trouble balancing playing games and and like study? Hmm. Tell him to stop playing games, right? Do you think that works? Well, I mean if they're not gonna be the next ninja they should probably quit anyway, right? Yeah, I mean, do you think that that's that's do you think that's an effective way to? teach I mean I would tell my kid like if they're going to like Try to be as good as they possibly can be at the game and make a career out of it Fuck it. Keep playing but if you're just playing to like jerk off then like stop like that's how that's that what that's how I would Make it I completely I completely are that makes a lot of sense to me because that is exactly the way that you approach life Right, so it's like black and white. It's either or it's like either you be the next ninja or you fucking stop There's no middle ground. Well, not even the next ninja. I mean shit you could even I'd be cool with my son being a shroud You know like I mean anything and you know, I'm just I'm just messing around but yeah Yeah, like I think black and white like that. Yeah, like I wouldn't it's just It's like if you're not gonna make something of it. Why waste your time doing it like, you know Yeah, I mean, I think that's a good question Why do something if you're not gonna be the best? Yeah, and a lot of people do know I'm actually asking you Well, I don't know the thing is like Why do you think if you don't want to be I guess for fun, right? Sure Yeah, that's enjoyable. I'm not saying everything has to be I'm just saying people should have their like main focus and they should really focus on that And that should be what they love doing right? So like if you love video games I truly think that you should strive to be the best at what you love and try and make something out of it So you don't have to do the other shitty things in life and you can actually work on your passion and some Someday that might actually make you you know, you can make a career out of it, right? Like that's I think it's a good plan like doing what you love and trying to make a career out of it That's why I would tell my son like if he wants to play games Then play but be better than everyone else, you know Okay, so I'm a little bit confused like it does so if I if I have you know, so I am careful about how my kids spend time in front of the screen and so what I Try to teach them is some degree of restraint So I don't tell them that they have to you know I tell them that you have to do the things that you have to do and then you can also spend some time doing fun stuff But that it's not like an either or that you can actually do both What do you think about that? like what if what if like your your 15 year old comes home and then studies for a couple of hours and does their Homework and between 6 and 8 p.m They get to like play whatever they want to and then after bed if they've been a good kid they get to play for a Couple more hours. What do you think about that? I Mean if they're yeah, they're 15 they're growing out there they're living life. They're playing with their friends. I think that's fine, right? But like You know, I think as people get older they need to really zone in on what they want to do You know like rather than like Dicking around and like doing things for fun I feel like that kind of ends at some point it definitely did for me You know like I used to skateboard and like do all these things for fun or whatever But I knew that they weren't leading anywhere Right like like I used to play fucking league for fun and I would play in silver fucking too And it's just like it was never gonna get me anywhere. I'm never gonna be an LCS league player Nobody's ever gonna watch my stream when I play league, right? My time why do you have to be somewhere why do you have to be somewhere So like no because like for some reason it's something deep inside of me just like earns for this like acceptance and like like it's just Doing something and like making something of myself, right? Like I don't know something deep inside me feels as though I failed and like I have to do something more, you know Yeah, so let's just pause for a second now. We're getting somewhere right, so Understand that a lot of your worldview is being informed by this thing Doesn't mean it's fucking logical doesn't mean it's rational you have a sense that you need to Accomplish something and the older you get the greater that sense grows the more behind you feel The more you need to make up for lost time Mm-hmm, right the more the less time you have to take care of yourself and the harder you need to grind Because something within you says that Mitch is not good enough Yeah Something you ever me says that inside of myself for sure. Have you ever been able to satisfy it? No, well actually for like maybe like one or two weeks at a time Like let's say I had some crazy stream by like 20,000 viewers and made a lot of money or whatever I feel like if I could kept that keep that going And like I could like make like a living for myself and Mitch Mitch pause for a second. Okay, I know what you're gonna say so Just think about this Okay So you have something within you that even if you knock it out of the park for a week or two and you make a ton Of money and everyone really loves it That just sets a whole new bar. You can't be satisfied with it You feel satisfied for like one week and then the hunger returns Yeah. Yeah, I guess that's true. So what do you think about living a life that is structured around this hunger inside you? You've told me has never really been satisfied Like it would be satisfied temporarily, but then it all goes back to the same shit and I truly think I Truly think that the reason it's not satisfied is not because I never got like where I wanted to get it's because I never continued Like it's almost like this right like I would get to where I want to be and then I would quit and I would get to Where I want to be and then I would quit and then I get to where I want to be and then I quit I never Consistently stayed there like I've had so many opportunities had I've just stayed consistent to be you know one of the biggest streamers on the platform like years ago you know like in 2014 and shit and I would just like take it for granted and I would just play league with my with my Stoner friend all day and I would just say like fuck it like I've already I don't know Like I just never had the willpower to stay consistent, you know Yeah, that's because others will power is not how people are consistent will power is not how people are consistent So I think you're adopting a losing strategy because you you've so I want you to try to do something Mitch This is gonna be hard. Okay, I want you to try to I Want you to try to look at your thoughts the way that I see them so you have you have a Really good reason to believe all the things that you want to that you believe they're very logical But I want you to try to look at them from the outside Mm-hmm, okay So I am hearing that you have something within you that feels like you're not good enough And that is what really motivates you to success it motivates you to grind right? Yes, but can I can I elaborate a bit? Yeah, I think that why I don't feel good enough is because I've let so many Opportunities go you know what I mean. It's the fact that I could be somewhere if I just wasn't so goddamn stupid That's what bothers me the most. It's not that I You know it's not that I'm like oh, I need to be successful It's that I had the opportunity and I fucked it up ten times in a row it bothers me so much That's what so why do people fuck up good things I? Don't know why did I fuck it up because I thought it would be there forever. I thought I was good You know I thought I thought I I thought I didn't see it What do you think about someone who blames themselves for something that they don't understand? They're lost sure do you think they're deserving of blame if they don't understand what the fuck is going on Yeah Really? Yeah, because I think everyone can It depends on the situation obviously, but I think you can get to a place where you understand right like just saying I don't understand is like almost playing like dumb right sure, but do you understand? I don't think you do I Don't understand yourself at all because you're telling me that you have opportunity after opportunity after opportunity and you you squander it and squander it and squander it Yes, and you don't seem like a stupid person to me, so I think that there is there are large Tectonic forces within you that cause you to do things that you believe in And you don't seem like a stupid person to me, so I think that there is there are large Tectonic forces within you that cause you to do things that you beat yourself up for but you don't understand Why the fuck you how you work like it's yeah, that's true. I've always noticed that I've always had that You blame yourself for not understanding. It's like it's like you're You know you don't understand why this why David isn't functioning properly, but sure as hell will blame yourself for it Even though you don't understand so it's like like I mean what if you like but that that's dumb I don't think you can blame yourself like you can blame yourself if you understand what's actually happening Mm-hmm. I think it's dumb to blame yourself if you don't understand You know it's like if this is gonna sound kind of completely crazy But you know like so kids blame themselves for stupid shit all the time And it's not their fault like they'll blame themselves for like really crazy things like their parents getting cancer Somehow kids will like they don't understand how things work, but that doesn't stop them from blaming themselves Does that make sense to you that makes perfect sense? Yeah, see that was an analogy. I understood I got yeah, that makes perfect sense I don't know I don't know how I can relate that to myself like I'm not you know I can relate it as a tad to myself But I truly think that my problems were created by me not by cancer or something out of my control You know yeah, so if you can control them, why aren't you? Well, I'm working on taking steps to doing that I think I think I wasn't so why don't you why don't you give yourself Any slack for that that's what I don't understand like I see I don't know I just don't so that just don't change my friend and Also, it doesn't help that twitch chat reminds me every fucking day. You know what I mean like they Twitch chat is very you know they are I mean they're very like whatever and they're gonna remind me of all my fuck-ups So like I have to be aware of them I have to like soak in I don't think I don't think you understand what your fuck-ups really are because I think all you see I can tell you all of them trust no no no To I'm sure that you can point to lots of things Externally about your life that you think you made mistakes about but I don't think you're appreciating that what? That a human being has all kinds of forces within them that cause them to do things that they don't understand Like when I see someone who screws up time and time and time again I don't think that the person is deficient because generally speaking I think most human beings are like not just dumb and crappy at life I think that there are real psychological spiritual whatever you want to call it There are forces within you that shape your behavior which most people are ignorant to I Agree with that a hundred percent. It's almost like there's like two people or something right? There's like you and there's the there's that like dry that like makes you you know, whatever Yeah, so so I think you're trying to live life like you're trying to drive a car, but you're blind You're like driving blind and you're like, how do I see? Perfect. That's the question. I would like to see so it's right. It starts with this. Okay, okay Yeah, so when you sense yours, so actually let me just think for a second. How can I just answer it for you? Let's start with this. How long have you felt like you're a failure? Ever since probably like 2016 that's when I got really bad. That's when it got really bad. Tell me when it started It started around that time honestly before all of that shit I really didn't even think about life the way I think about it now like how did you think I used it? I used to just like wake up Play World of Warcraft shit on everyone and go to bed and I was completely content with that life I loved every second of it and I truly didn't think the way I think now I really didn't have any I didn't think I was a failure if I lost the game I would just be like, okay, I'm gonna shit on them tomorrow. Whatever, you know Like I never had that attitude of like I fucked up everything, you know That only really really started after like twitch World of Warcraft like that Well, I played from like 18 to like 23 I'd say like pretty religiously and that's also how I became straight like a streamer on twitch Well, you tell me a little bit about what middle school was like for you. Oh Middle school is amazing, man. I literally love middle school everyone. Oh middle school is fucking great, dude I have so many stories. I probably can't say here but yeah, like let's just say I was pretty cool in middle school and I Had a very good social life. I wasn't the best in school But like I just started, you know experimenting with like women, you know, my penis started working etc And like it was it was nice. Okay, so you you had fun and you didn't think you were a failure and you felt good about yourself Yes. Yes. Yes. I I felt great about myself in middle school, but this was also when my mom was still good You know, yeah, so tell me about school High school was okay. So my my my freshman year. I was kind of like a Transitioning I actually went to an all-guys high school I had to it was like a private school had to wear like a tie every day It was very strict school, right and that was different than what I was used to So I'd like a uniform and all dudes and blah blah blah and my dad really wanted me to succeed You know, like my dad's always been giving me this like hard-ass attitude Like you have to make something of yourself like, you know, like so my freshman year I was really focused and I would try my best to like, you know be on time do all my schoolwork I actually did pretty well my freshman and sophomore year and then my sophomore year. I Think he was happy. Yeah, I really think that was the time in my life where my dad was probably the most like proud of me Yeah, you know, I was playing sports and I I Mean it felt as though I was living I was living to please my father, you know, like it didn't it Particularly I didn't particularly enjoy doing those things, you know, like I didn't feel like a grind Yeah, I did it felt like every day, you know, I school was my the school I went to was was hard man like Yeah, it was it was a difficult school and My first two years I was doing very very well and then um, and then my mother got sick my sophomore year I like the end of myself. Can we just pause for a second? But I want to I just want to just understand what was going on within you during your freshman and sophomore years. So You were working really hard you were also delaying a lot of gratification Yes, you were Being very conscientious and diligent Yes, you were grinding Yeah grinding. Yeah, what happened to the fun middle school kid? I Just I had to grow like my my dad made me know like I remember the summer going into my My dad told me like shit's gonna be different You need to focus like you have to make something you have to do this Like I want you to go to a good college like you need to focus This is a very important time in your life and my dad instilled that in me like super heavily in that summer instilling Just the fact that I had to stop, you know, because in middle school I'm gonna be honest my grades were trash like I was just I was having a good time Sure, and I didn't really care about school I was kind of just like I was like, I was like, I was like, I was like, I was like, I was like, I was like, I was like Doing my thing and whatever, you know making friends having a good time And then my dad told me that's not gonna fly anymore Like you can't keep doing that like you have to buckle down when he said that to you Do you remember how you felt? I felt as though I had to I really I really accepted it, you know, I felt as though I had to change I remember thinking about it about yourself Um, honestly It didn't really matter to me anyway, like like I didn't feel any type of way I was more of just like I liked doing I would have rather have jerked off and dicked around and and trust me later on in high school I started doing that but like sure um Yeah, like it didn't it didn't I was just happy that I was making my dad proud that that did that did make me feel good You know, yeah, so you you you enjoyed you enjoyed making him proud you also, did it feel like you were kind of getting your like did what he said sort of sink in with you like you felt like Okay, I'm kind of a Little bit of a fuck-up. So maybe I do need to get my shit in gear Yeah, oh, I definitely I definitely thought that way. Yeah, like I went through a rough phase from when I switched I switched from like a Public school to private school in actually in middle school and uh, I remember it was a rough transition for me because I was like moving away from all my other friends blah blah like I used to uh, I used to get my mom hell man, like I would I would just go to school and I wouldn't even put my clothes on because I told him I wasn't going to go there So I would literally get in the car naked and just just i'm not going i'm not going I swear i'm not going shit man. That makes me miss my mom so fucking much. Yeah, what did she do? She was just so fucking loving man. I don't know she would she would just try she was she was such a pushover dude Like you know, she was such a pushover man Anything anything I wanted she gave me to me anything and then my dad was the opposite right? Like but my mom was just like she would like almost like sneakily like try and like give me my way without telling her Don't tell your father. You know what I mean? You guys you guys were like, uh, you guys were like thick as thieves Yes, yes. Yes. My mom to this day is the only person I ever trusted and I ever loved I will I will stand by that. I i've never felt the same connection with anyone ever And uh, I honestly don't think i'll ever feel that way again with anyone I've had major trust issues since since uh, since all of that like major major major trust issues with what is that? since all of what Since I think it's since I lost my mom I just went off the deep end man Like since I lost like the it's not that she's gone. It's just I lost her like Just like her spunk everything about her man is just fuck. I just I just miss it I miss it, man I wish I could have one more conversation with her and just be like listen mom. I love you And I need to understand like I just wish I could have that that would be that would be so nice But obviously it's not gonna happen. What would you say to her? I would just tell her how good of a parent she was and it's not her fault You know like anything that happened is not her fault and that she really really was She really still is to this day the only reason that I actually have Like any ounce of like humanity left because I swear i've become like a fucking robot, you know Like I swear to god dude with all the shit with twitch and everything. I swear to god I become a fucking robot man. Sounds like she's keeping you alive Yeah, definitely for sure. I didn't want to put it that way because you know, whatever But that's that's definitely true. I've definitely had my uh moments of feeling that way. Yeah. Yeah Why can't you say that to her? Honestly when I see her nowadays I I just can't I I it's so hard for me to deal with like I she's in a wheelchair and she's It's just so fucking hard. I can't explain it man. I break down every time I see her dude Like I went back east actually a couple months ago And you know my life's been pretty rough the last four months or so Uh, I actually lost my partnership with twitch. I don't know if you knew about all this but I lost my partnership with twitch like four months ago. I'm a boomer and uh, Okay. Well, yeah, I lost my partnership with twitch four months ago and pretty much a lot of my income has been taken away from me Which kind of sucks It actually really fucking sucks No, it's my fault. I I made a I made a huge mistake I I fucked up but but yeah, I i've definitely i've definitely felt the repercussions of that. I mean shit like I When I first got I don't know where i'm kind of going all over the place if that's okay Yep, I don't mean to like get off topic or anything. I just I'll keep you on topic. Yeah, like that's okay. Yeah Just speak keep talking. Is it okay if I interrupt and direct you from time to time? Oh, yeah There's no problem with that. Yeah I'm just asking you if you because i'll go off on tangents a lot because there's a lot of there's a lot of ground To make free free, you know for us Yeah No cap of pride. Why do you think why do you think that there's a lot of ground to cover? Uh, I just think there is there's a lot there's really is a lot my my life has been very uh Eventful full of like ups and downs and craziness, right? So there's definitely a lot for sure Yeah, how much of how much of? What do you think we've covered so far? Do you think we've covered a lot? I think we've covered about yeah, I'd say we covered a good amount for sure Yeah, definitely But a lot of the things there's still a lot we haven't covered as well, but sure there's definitely Stuff like can you tell me how you feel when you see your mom? Uh, yeah, I feel helpless. I feel helpless. I feel I can't help her and it eats away at me inside and I would honestly rather Just avoid it like i'll go and see her but I just put up this like mental wall where i'm just like, all right I'm not i'm not gonna feel anything. You know what I mean? Yeah, very black and white Yeah, i'll put up this wall where i'm just like whatever you need mom. I got you you need food I'll get it for you. You need this i'll get it for you like i'll do anything for you. You know what I mean? What's behind the wall? Behind the wall I would just break down constantly man. I I can't deal with it I can't I can't deal with it when I see her and in the state that she's in it it breaks my fucking heart to the point where I I just can't function man. Like I would I just can't like I break down I I I was freaking out like I remember you know recently I was there and I was just like It was just every day. I was just crying and Lashing out and just unstable. You know what I mean? Sure. So what do you think happens to all those feelings when you're not with her? I try and suppress all of them and just focus on my job Yeah, and how do you think that they continue to like so like let's say that someone has You know, let's just let's talk about someone else for a second Okay So now i'm gonna ask you to step outside of your shoes like this is gonna be hard for you But I want you to try okay So let's say that there's someone who has you know All these emotions that cause them to like lash out at people and break down crying and stuff like that and then you know that those emotions kind of get triggered or come out in a particular Situation and then once they leave that situation They're kind of like they appear to be functioning normally and and yeah, do you think that that person would be functioning normally? I think that they can Put on the mask that they're functioning normally even though they might be very much so in pain inside But that's kind of life and how do you think how do you think that that affects? What they try to like do you think that that person will be very successful? I Think some some some types of people in those situations could be and others the weights too much and they crack, right? I think that's yeah. How does that what does that look like? What is what what does cracking look like like? How would you know when someone's cracking? Cracking is just like throwing in the towel and just saying fuck it and giving into your emotions You know, that's cracking cracking is what i've done the last four months man Like that's cracking, you know, I got banned on twitch. I lost my partnership. I fucked up Uh, I I literally became like a fucking gambling addict for a while Like I I had a lot of money saved up and I pretty much lost like every dollar gambling when I went back east Like there's a lot of casinos where i'm from in maryland And like i've always had a problem with like poker and like blackjack and stuff like that And I went back home and I just I was at the casino 16 hours a day I don't know why I just didn't want to deal with my home life because I knew I had to go back home and deal With it and and like I I was like fuck it like i'll just maybe i'll get lucky gambling and I won't have to stream Or something like something stupid and irrational came inside of me But recently I actually put myself in a super financial hole that i've never been in in my life Like, you know, i've never been in this situation and I I did I did this I did this to myself recently 100 like I fucked up Yeah, so that's not something I entirely agree with So look, can I help you? Can I share a little bit about what I see and what I think is going on? Oh, yeah, sure So like you're I I don't think this really happens anymore, but You know like wow used to have like a resurrection debuff Yes And like when you had the rez debuff like do you remember like what happened to your stats and stuff? Yeah, they they uh, they got they got reduced by a lot like a shit ton, right? Like 90. Yeah 90 Yeah, and and so what happens if you like try to do like a raid and you have the rez debuff? You feed and you lose Okay So what I think is going on with you, mitch is that you are playing the game of life and you're losing Catastrophically over and over and over again and you basically have a rez debuff that you're not aware of Oh That's a good analogy, what do you think about that? I think I gotta wait 10 minutes and queue up again Yeah, but that's the thing right so you don't so 10 minutes is not how you actually get rid of the rez debuff in real life You actually have to get rid of that debuff And I think I think so. So let me tell you what i'm hearing, right? So I hear a guy who's pretty intelligent and pretty driven and when they put their mind to something they can really accomplish a lot And I also hear that you have this wall within you behind which is all kinds of just bizarre abject feelings of of loss grief loneliness Brokenness that you're a failure and somehow you're actually functioning in life with all that shit behind the wall And then that's fair And then you're you're confused when like you don't understand why when your mind when you try to put your mind to something It doesn't happen properly and it's like yeah because you have this fucking rez debuff on you And and I just don't I think you grossly like underestimate What you're capable of not because you're and this is the thing about the rez debuff It's not like your stats are actually bad, right? Like your stats are good your high level you have good gear all of it like all When you look at someone who's got a rez debuff and you look at their character sheet everything looks normal And so that person if I just took like a screenshot of someone's like gear and their level And they're like like hotkeys and stuff like that and I looked at that that wow character I said, okay, this person should be able to down this raid boss There's just one tiny little icon right because that's what the rez debuff looks like It's a tiny tiny tiny icon, but boy is it worth a lot And you don't see it on the character sheet And I think you're going through life and you're blaming yourself because you've got this rez debuff That's like off in the corner of your screen and you look at yourself. You say oh, I have all this gear I'm max level. I have this I have this I'm capable of this And then sometimes Heroically the fucking crazy thing is that sometimes you actually down the raid boss With the fucking rez debuff Sometimes you're able to do it Oh Man for like a yeah, I can I can really relate to what you're saying this analogy is yeah I totally get what you're saying right because you feel that rez debuff. It's there within you the sense of you being fucking broken What do you think that is? That's the rez debuff Yeah, how on earth do you think you're gonna be successful when that shit is eating you alive? From the inside It's definitely a lot harder Yeah It's like it's amazing that you've done what you've done. I think it's it's amazing People will think you're a fucking hacker if you're like downing bosses with a rez debuff. They're like this guy's fucking hacker That's actually That's a it's a great analogy man. It helps me relate to yeah, I get what you're saying That's what am I saying? You're saying that I'm pretty much living life with fucking Balls on my ankles and I'm somehow still doing shit, right? Yeah. So what do you think? What does that person deserve right? So if we're gonna judge that person Do we do we judge them and do we say oh this person fucking sucks at life or do we actually respect them? Well, if you're twitch chat, you would just don't worry about Okay, if you're a human Okay, if you're a human, yeah Okay, so twitch just not humans You just don't worry about twitch chat. We're not gonna skate. Okay. Okay. Okay. No twitch chat All right. So sorry. Can you can you uh, What do you think that person deserves from us? What should we think about that person? I mean they did I I think Help honestly, I don't know if there's anything that people can do to help But if you can help like when I see people that are as broken as me I I gravitate towards that for some reason like it makes me feel like i'm not alone, you know So like I like to help those type of people in any way that I can Um, yeah, I do like to help people. Do you try to help yourself? Oh, yeah, uh Really? Yeah, I I I mean I have in the past Yeah, like I said, I took a year off twitch to try and find myself and all I found was trash So, I don't know. I've definitely had my my my uh, my moments of trying to help myself Yes, but then then I put those on hold and try and help Uh my you know my job or other people or whatever, you know I'm happy to hear you say that i'm also a little bit surprised I think you treat yourself very differently from other people with res debuffs Wait, why is that? I think you blame yours. I mean, I think you you judge yourself for I don't think you treat I don't think you treat yourself. Well Yeah, I definitely don't I definitely don't and I I try to like uh Well, I try to do like the health stuff like I try and eat well and you know I try and keep the bare minimum to stay alive. Very good. So so be not now now we get to the crux of it Right. So i'm not saying that you don't try to do things to make your life better I just don't think you treat yourself. Well I think you do a lot of things to try to improve your life I don't think you try to improve your life and one may assume That just because you're trying to improve your life that you feel like compassion towards yourself but I don't think you do I think you try to just improve your life because Your life has to change but I don't think you actually treat yourself very kindly Yeah, I I I don't yeah, that's true. I don't yeah, I don't like myself. I don't like where i'm at I don't like what i've become And honestly if I could do it all over I would I wouldn't do what i've done That's honestly how I feel. Yeah, so what what do we what emotion is that? Do you know? Like regret and like absolutely. Yeah, so speaking of grief Um, I mean do you feel like you're grieving right now I truly think that i'm grieving every day of my life and I think you are too buddy And I know how to put a smile on my face and I know how to be fucking mitch jones on twitch You know, but when i'm all alone and the cameras are off, it's it's not good. Yeah, not good So I I think so. Let me tell you something mitch. I think I think you can get better So by the way for some reason people are calling you the raid boss apparently when it comes to Like you're the you're you're my raid boss. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, you you can't you can't you can't fix me dude I'm i'm a hard boss, bro. I mean if this is a raid boss, it's Mitch I think you can be I think you can get better I'm I'm more hopeful about you than I am about many many people that I talk to And I think it's it's just because you've got such a so it's hard to fix someone who doesn't have a rez debuff Right. Oh, yeah, because they're just lost in their own Yeah, yeah Like if you just fucking suck it wow and you like don't know how to like push buttons then I can't help you Yeah, but the people that I saw yeah, but the thing is you don't suck I think I think what's going on with you is that you have so let me just take a step back So if we think about behavior, i'm gonna just say a couple of random things Okay, so my turn to be kind of tangential and all over the place Yeah, you know First thing is when we think about behavior your mind and your brain has a lot of stuff that goes into whether you engage in a behavior Yes, right. So like if I want to drink this water, for example, like I can have an internal sense of thirst I can have some like logical part of me that says oh I should drink eight glasses of water and I should stay hydrated There can also be things like availability like so if the water is right in front of me I'm much more likely to drink it than if the water was like In the next room, right? So there are a lot of things that go into behavior And I think a big thing that goes into behavior that people don't understand is like emotions So generally speaking if we want to do something like delay gratification And control our impulses and like all the stuff that we think about is maturity Like would you describe yourself as immature? In some ways, yes, yes, it depends on which aspects I say 90 percent of aspects Yes, i'm immature, but there's that 10 percent of me that is very aware and mature. Yeah, so I think so I think I think When I think about people who view themselves as immature the number when the reason they we call it Immaturity is because there's a part of your brain called your frontal lobes, which does things like delay gratification And plans tasks over long periods of time and executes them in a consistent manner. So that's like maturity It's like shit like paying a mortgage That's your frontal lobes. So when I when I Think about things that interfere with the function of the frontal lobes suppressed emotion is at the top of the list So generally speaking when I work with people who's like frontal lobes are just not working properly i.e They're behaving immaturally like they're just not able to be consistent in life They can do things they can use willpower for Brief periods of time or even days or weeks at a time to suppress all of their negative emotion But at some point that negative emotion comes up and actually like starts affecting you Like you get up one day first hand. Yeah, I've noticed that first hand Yeah, sometimes I just fucking like I used to have a panic disorder and I I swear that was related to this Like I used to have a very bad anxiety very very bad Yeah, like I was the biggest hypochondriac you would ever know like literally like I was I was fucking bad And so that that anxiety and panic disorder has now started to manifest in different ways Yeah, and the challenge gone. Yeah, so the anxiety for me is like weirdly like just like vanished instead. It's more of just like Uh, yeah, go ahead anyways Yeah So I think that whatever it was that showed up as an anxiety problem for you is now showing up in other ways The problem is that those ways are subtle and you don't see them, but you fucking blame yourself for them Right. So like you don't you don't see like you don't understand why you do certain things But you sure as hell will beat yourself up for it But I think the problem is that you've got like, you know Because you're trying to engage in a particular behavior or you engage in like gambling or something like that because you've got these Gambling was my vice man gambling. I swear to god when I was gambling all of it goes away and i'm just in the moment You know what I mean? Yep. So this is what we've got to do buddy So like all this shit is pent up inside you and I think the reason that you're sucking at life for lack of a better term Is because of this stuff. I don't think it's because you actually just suck at life I think this is the res debuff And I think you can see it there are times when you notice it, but just think about this for a second Okay, just think about this if you like walk into a room and you see your mom and you become overwhelmed with emotion Like where the fuck do you think that goes when you leave the room? I don't know But just think like does it just disappear? Is that how we work? No, it probably just goes somewhere inside of me and some weird muscle and then yeah something Yeah, and then brain or some shit and then what it does is it turns it so in when you're in the room with her It's like not a tiny debuff in the corner of your screen that's affecting all of your stats it's like front and center and then when you leave the room all of that front and center stuff becomes a tiny little debuff in the corner of your screen that reduces your stats by 90 percent and then you go on living life and then you fail willpower check after willpower check because like You're just debuffed like really really bad. Yeah. No, I know that feeling. I mean, I'm exhausted a lot of the time Like yeah, like fucking exhausted So this is important because now i'm going to tell you something so the mind Maintaining that wall It's not a permanent wall. It's like a spell that you have to cast over and over and over and over and over again So you maintain out of mana is what you're saying all the time That's why dude You're you're um, and you've got a res debuff and you're trying to live life like this because like no wonder you're exhausted Because keeping that shit at bay like you realize how much of like that's like it's like a burning hot sun of emotion There's so much of it. Just think about how much your subconscious mind is like spending mana like keeping that shit at bay Yeah Like that's crazy, man Like you get that so how how do I stop living life? Um Um Yeah, great. So you got to actually deal with the feelings underneath, right? So you've got to actually cleanse So I want you to think about the debuff is a pile of emotion that is just on your back It's like baggage like literally like you're just you're not only out of um You like I have all this inventory space like you can't loot anything because all of your inventory is filled with this crap question though, I have a question Is it possible to just like reroll and like play like a warrior? No mana Like a warrior No, just read you know No, no, I mean I whatever the resource is I mean, so it's not okay All right I mean really rolling in theory in theory that's possible in some ways but No, okay, not be on the scope of this conversation. We're not going to have you re-roll All right. No re-rolling. Okay, you're not still in there. Yeah, you're you're you're we're not done with you yet. Mitch All right, sounds good Like process that stuff man So like like this is the thing where where it's so painful to process that shit like you it's I think you probably do get it like it's just so It's so I like when I process those things i'm broken as fuck And if i'm trying to also stream at the same time twitch chat sees that i'm unstable and they feed off of it Yeah, yeah, so so you can't fucking do this on twitch chat Yeah, but like how am I going to continue streaming while at the same time i'm leaking emotional baggage left in the room No, no, so you don't want to you don't You don't want to leak emotional baggage left and right you want to take some time and effort and take time out of your day Right. So this is where we learn some work life balance where you've got to start like like cleansing those debuffs and cleaning out that inventory space And like, you know drinking your crystal water or whatever to get your mana back Like you've got I do that dude. I I swear without my regimens of like my weird health regimens I'd be fucked just because of the amount of like shit neck Yeah, like dude, I have these weird ass regimens where I drink like veggie juice every day I drink these massive smoothies of just like massive amounts of vegetables like I swear if I was eating a trash diet and living I I would be fucking dead. I promise. Yeah, so this is this is how you're able to function Well, so let's just think about this you can down the raid boss because you have the rez debuff But then you also have like all these food buffs and then like you've got people who are brewing you potions And then you get like, you know arcane intellect and like all that other crap So like you're buffing yourself every day and if you stop but like this is the thing That's just a fucking hard way to live life Mitch like you you get that like you can't live a normal life because you have to you do all of these things like Veggie juices and stuff because you have this gigantic pile of shit on your back Yeah, yeah, that's like my mana pots and like without them. Yeah You're like chain chugging and like you're buffing yourself to be like functional Yeah, yeah, right but like the the problem here the root of the problem is that we have to deal with that negative emotion We've got to digest and metabolize that and free you of that But there's so many different like the the negative emotion is almost consuming to where I truly have a negative alloc on the world Like I see I truly believe that like people Especially on twitch like the the friends I made here, etc. I don't trust like hardly any of them Yeah, so each of these things has to be dealt with right? So the first one there's one that i've been trying to hammer into you over and over and over again today The first of your cognitive biases that needs to be addressed. Do you know what it is? Yeah, the The uh rest sickness, right? No, no, no. Yeah, so that that's more of a deeper sense, but there's a subtle cognitive bias So I keep on talking about black and white thinking Okay, so that's what I need to work on is my black and white thinking you need to work on a lot of stuff But yeah So like the first thing is that the world isn't black and white right like it's not it's not I believe I I I truly believe it is I believe I know you do Yeah, like I truly think of the world as like it's just Bad and then there's some good and it's just like most people are just selfish and out for themselves It's just the way I view life man. Yeah So so that that's got it So mich this is this is gonna take time. Okay But I think that there's a lot here there's the sense of failure so that needs to be addressed there's just the fact that you view things in black and white and that's a real problem because that prevents that that Walls off your solution space as long as you see the world as black and white and as long as you blame yourself For example, which I think you've made some progress on Do you see that? Do you feel like you're I do? Yeah, I do see that Yeah, what's different between now and when we started talking in terms of your self-blame? Well, I can recognize it better very good has anything else changed Hmm No, I'll probably still blame myself for a lot of shit that I shouldn't but I definitely will recognize i'm doing that But I don't know if that matters being self-aware is something I've always I've I've always like Had a like I wouldn't say a gift, but I've always been self-aware if I can say that like I've always Known so I want you to listen. I want you to listen to this. Um, How do I fucking stop this? Okay Okay so You just said a statement. I blame myself for a lot of stuff that I shouldn't Yes Think about that for a second, but I also blame myself for a lot of things that I should as well. Yeah. Yeah, but so Don't just jump off the thought think about the thought. I really don't Don't just jump off the thought think about the thought I blame myself for a lot of stuff that I shouldn't That's it. It sounds weird to me Do you have any idea what I think is weird about it? Um, honestly, I don't I think that I I think if you recognize that you shouldn't blame yourself for it That's a huge step forward Mm-hmm Right because at the beginning you it was like like you just said your mind tried to go there Right and I blame myself for a lot of stuff that I should by the way Mm-hmm. So your mind very quickly goes to things like because you're comfortable with blaming yourself but the fact that you can say I blame myself for a lot of stuff that I shouldn't is actually huge Because you do blame yourself and now you're able to see that you are actually not very kind to yourself That what you really should do is cut yourself a little bit more slack Right. I'm not asking you to absolve yourself of all responsibility But can we can we agree that you should cut yourself like a little bit more slack? Yeah, yeah, we can do that how does that feel to you Feels like It feels like it's gonna be difficult To start but once I implement the changes and if I can do them consistently it could have a big impact on me Wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong that also is future It's future oriented thinking if I can be consistent if I can do this then one day I will be the way that I want to be like do you see that it's all like future oriented Consistent you're setting yourself up for failure Right there the goal is not to to Be forgiving towards yourself tomorrow and the next day and the next day and every day because that's where your mind jumps, too The goal is to be forgive yourself and be kind to yourself when Right now that's it Nothing more nothing less In the moment right now forgiving myself. How do you feel about that? How do you feel about just doing something in the moment and not worrying about tomorrow? I Feel as though that's a recipe for disaster very good So that also we need to change Right because tomorrow tomorrow is just now. There is no thing except for the now Yes, true in the moment is all we have right it's all we have And so now i'm gonna ask you again if you can get good at doing something in the moment What does that mean for your future? I Don't know that's a tough question good So think about it Right. So now we're getting somewhere So we got to re-chain we got to reshape the way that you view the world And the way that you view yourself and your perception of time and all this good shit But this is what I want you Go ahead. Sorry. No, no, no, no, I just yeah, I I agree with that heavily. Yeah Yeah, so we got to start by having you so like like how are you like we got to teach you how to be nice To yourself like now not tomorrow not consistently not for the rest of your life Just right now just right now. Can you do that? I mean sure I can try I can definitely try to do that. What is what is being nice to yourself? What the fuck does that even mean? How do you do that? Help me out having a good spank. I don't know I don't know doing something you enjoy to do like, uh, right Actually, that's not what i'm looking for so I think when you do something that you enjoy doing That is actually going to step away from the emotions, right? It's going to be it's going to help you step outside of that Distraction. Okay. Very good. So that's a good spank is just going to be a distraction And like for those of you, you know like sometimes you're feeling down and hurt on the inside and then you have yourself a good wink and then As soon as you're done What happens to the feelings of loneliness and dejection? They're just still there. Yeah, absolutely, right so that we don't want to do a good spank. That's not what we're looking for True. Okay. Okay. So good. So we're no space. Okay. All right So what I want you to do is is try to be Okay I'm just gonna think about How to say this so if there's no distractions that because you said what do you you know, what do you do to reward yourself? Not reward When you're feeling when you're beating yourself up, you know when you're beating yourself up Yeah, I I do. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I want you to imagine what your mom would say to you Hmm Hmm I I honestly don't know anymore man. Like I i've lost that i've lost that you haven't I think you know what I say You fucked up before what did she say to you when you fucked up What did she say to you when you showed up naked in in your car ready for school? She would just say that you know She would just say in the nicest way possible most loving way possible about you know How to go forward right like she would just be like and that's what you need to do for yourself Because that's the fucking exact opposite of what you do to yourself Hmm Because you don't say to yourself in the nicest possible way how to move forward You do the exact fucking opposite you call yourself a fucking asshole And you blame yourself Yeah, that's yeah, that's what you need to learn how to do in the moment In the nicest way possible in the most loving and patient way possible encourage yourself to move forward Because here's the amazing thing about that your mom never asked you to like be consistent about wearing clothes for the rest of your life Right She didn't care about that. What did she care about? She just cared about that moment absolutely and helping me understand the moment Absolutely Right. She didn't say oh and you've got to get dressed every day for the rest of your life No, she was like, how can we just get some fucking clothes on you for now? Yeah, yeah for right now just to go to school. Yep. Yeah And that's what's got to change And the thing is Mitch she's She's she's helping you out way more than you even realize you just have to let yourself be helped by her Right now yeah, so I think she's taught you What you need to do for yourself? You just haven't learned it That's yeah, yeah Okay, yeah Man i've been distracting myself for so long, you know, very good No wonder you haven't been getting better Yeah, but there was like one year where I stopped distracting myself and really looked within the side myself and you don't understand like I don't mean to make it seem like bigger than anyone else's problems, but it just to me it was like It was very difficult, you know, oh I completely very difficult So yeah, like every day was hard man, like I had I don't know like I was definitely getting somewhere with healing myself for sure But it almost felt like to do that. I have to go through hell to get to the other side, you know Yeah, so I think the big mistake you're making the big strategic mistake You're making is that you spent a year trying to fix yourself and who was helping you? No one it was just me. That's the problem. I was alone that whole year and I liked it I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I just I was alone that whole year and I liked it. I I liked it So you can like it, but but let me tell you something when it comes to problems of this magnitude You need help You can do it on your own and I agree with you. It'll take years But the thing is the thing is dr. K. Let me let me explain to you another recurring problem. I have okay So I I understand what you're saying and I understand exactly that that is true I do need help but the another issue that I do have is I Will find these people in my life that will paint themselves as the perfect help for me, right? And instead of actually giving a shit about trying to help me It will almost always be them being selfish and trying to get something from me and I always feel betrayed afterwards and it makes me literally feel like Humans fucking suck and I just I just fucking give up you understand like I have had a fucking issue with like Trusting people that paint themselves as this almighty savior for me and like it it just fucks me time and time again Like it's an issue. I have because I always look for the easy way out, right? And when somebody paints you the picture of the easy way out, it's almost like hell. Yeah, let's do it You know and I fall for this every time dr. K every single time. Yeah, so I think you're doing the first step, right? Which is that you're you see it was interesting. I wish I could I wish you could hear things through my ears Because I I see so many solutions to that problem in the way that you describe it Because you recognize that there is a part of you that always looks for the easy way out And yes, and I latch on to like other people so now we get back to the the you don't understand what's going on in your mind Right, so there are forces and influences that despite this happening time and time and time again someone offers you Salvation and the easy road out and there is something within you that is just so fucking hungry for it that you can't help yourself I really can't That's very true. And even though even even if i'm super aware That it could be a negative situation. I still am like Fuck it like Maybe this will work. It's like one of those like get rich quick schemes. You know what I mean? Yeah, so so then I I don't think you're you're fully aware because That fuck it maybe this will work is once again something within you that is hungry that I don't think you fully understand Okay, because like like it so this is the thing you're not dumb, but you keep on making this mistake So in my in my overwhelming it's like a self repeating prophecy Yes, i'll send you a paper called the repetition compulsion very well characterized within the field of psychology and psychiatry. Okay So like that people basically repeat something Over and over and over again despite the fact that it's dumb because there's like a powerful psychological driver the more stupid Your behaviors are mitch. I want you to understand this the more powerful The psychological tugs are does that make sense? Because in order to get you to do something dumb over and over and over again There has to be something really really strong within you that's pushing you to do that thing That's fair Right. Yeah, so instead of blaming yourself. I think what you need to understand is that you have some gigantic things within you And and your your and those things are driving you to repeat behaviors over and over and over again That kind of screw you over and then what happens is like you're so busy You're like judging yourself for fucking it up again that you never stop and are like curious about why you did this in the first place And when you are curious because you are curious from time to time you take time and you reflect on things It's clear to me that you're very intelligent. You reflect a lot, which is awesome You just need some is it also bad to just reflect too much. Is that no? No, it's not bad. Not if you're reflecting properly now. Sometimes people will get into thought loops, which are unproductive So they'll think the same thing over and over and over again and they'll think that that is reflection. That is not reflection But yeah, i've been calling those mental lucifer Yeah, so I I think generally speaking I mean, I don't think you can reflect too much if you're really doing productive reflection I think you just understand more and more about yourself and eventually you become enlightened yes, so But in your case, which I think would be great. Oh my god to feel not heavy every day would be fucking amazing Yeah, so that starts so enlightenment is you can do it now. So just Close your eyes. Okay, close your eyes Okay, closing my eyes Wait, can I pee first? Yeah, go pee Okay. Thank you Okay, i'm gonna uh, okay. We're gonna take a bathroom break And then let me see if I get I gotta get more tea Okay, also guys is this this is the final boss is that Okay, hold on Mitch is mitch is gonna be he's gonna be I think he's gonna do okay like we just need some time with him Okay, i'm gonna take a quick ad break I've been trying to not read chat so much just to have a A genuine experience. That's also why I didn't want to stream on my channel as well because I know that I get carried away with like, you know chat stuff I'm trying to just really take this serious and uh You know, you know what I mean? so I think that's the best plan of action Okay, all right All right How you feeling mitch I'm feeling good. I'm feeling good. I'm feeling uh, you know, i'm feeling like What do you mean? I'm going to understand some things more so than I did And I feel as though Uh, I I feel as though um I'm almost like locked like i'm like hard stuck and like I need to fix that Yep, we're gonna do it. That's what i've gone to. Yeah, so so so so This is so you gotta once again be careful because you can't fix it. You're not gonna fix it. Okay, you're just gonna do different today Okay What's the difference? The difference is right now in the moment i'm gonna try to work on things that you've said and not beat myself up as much and Um There's something else yeah good Yeah, it was uh not blame myself as much and try and Work on it now and put my clothes on and go to school beautiful Okay, gotch so and then we're gonna teach you how to meditate so you are you have some experience in meditation? oh, yeah, yeah, i've i've and quite frankly when I meditate I truly feel as though like It's almost like a negative experience for me like I don't know how to explain it like yeah, tell me about it I like if I meditate before sleep, I almost always have nightmares. Um if I Meditation for me like I've like cried and it just it brings out a lot of pain is all i'm trying to say it's like when i'm just there alone in my thoughts, even when I try and tell my thoughts to shut up like It's for some reason emotion comes out instead. It's so it's so hard to explain. I don't know. Yeah makes perfect sense Okay, well maybe it's not hard to explain no no it's it it yeah So i'm going to teach you a different kind of meditation technique that is not going to quite have the same effect I think it'll be more pleasant for you But I think what's happening in your case is anytime you try to meditate What essentially happens is you stop casting your wall spells? And so the shit comes flooding out. So oftentimes in meditation whatever is buried comes up Okay, because you're just you're you're like unraveling your mind First thing is you got to sit up straight All right, so we got to fix your posture. Yeah So what kind of charity? Yeah uh, I don't know some type of uh Wheelchair thingy I set like wheels on it. It's like, you know, okay So this is like a computer chair a shitty one. Okay. Okay. So what I want you to do is you're like leaning back Back Yeah, don't lean back. So sit up straight and kind of no no like yeah You have pillows or blankets behind you Yeah, can you go get so I want you to sit on something Sit like with your sit on something. Yeah, like I want you to take like a pillow and put it on your chair and then sit on that Okay, yeah Mitch I Really want to help you get your shit together, man You're gonna what happened? No, i'm just feeling good about you. That's all. Okay. All right. Okay So so now I want you wrong. No, no, you're doing great. So now close your eyes now Do you do you notice a difference once you're sitting on the pillow? with your back, uh Yeah, yeah, I do. Yeah. What do you notice is different? Well, I don't feel as My heavy I guess Okay My back feels yeah, my back feels it feels easier to sit. Yeah good now I want you to fold the pillow in half and then sit on that So fold it fold it on top of it. Yeah All right Now how do you feel more? I feel very erect now good right? So close your eyes and just feel yourself Okay You were contracted before You all compounded and like weighed down on yourself You feel that Yeah, yeah I do eyes closed, okay. Okay. Now, how do you feel? I feel I definitely I feel yeah, I feel a little lighter. I feel as though it's easier to sit, you know It's easier. I feel I feel I feel good breathing is better easier. Yeah Yeah weird, huh? Yeah, it's really strange So just sit with that lightness for a second. Just sit with that Just sit with the way you feel right this is you You're not so bad Yeah, not so bad I'm not so bad, right? Okay. Yeah, so notice those thoughts of you being and you started to slouch again. So no slouching Okay, good Just maintain your your posture and then you know, they're there it's okay for thoughts to be self-judgmental It's okay for you to think that you're bad and that you're broken and you're never going to get better And just notice those things and then return to the sensation of your body Right that all that stuff is kind of there, but that stuff too can kind of be walled off if you want it to It's not so much that you're walling it off. It's just that you're not letting it take center stage We're gonna just let it we're gonna let it exist in our mind It's just gonna be off to the side a little bit and we're gonna put oh see look at the way you're breathing beautiful Feel that just yeah breathe man. Yeah Oh, man, okay Okay, what is that? What what just happened? I don't know. I just feel weird. I I i'm good now. I'm good What was that sensation? Tell me I don't know it's like I wanted to like be happy but then I stopped myself from being happy because I can't do that right now because i'm I don't even fucking know what it was. I don't know very good good good, right? So just think about that when was the last time you wanted to be happy like that? When was the last time you felt the buoyancy? What you felt right there was buoyancy. Does that make sense? Yeah, but I feel uncomfortable feeling that way. Absolutely. That's your fucking problem, man in a nutshell All right, we gotta help you Be buoyant when you feel naturally like being buoyant Eyes closed Okay Does that make sense? You felt that buoyancy? It's just like just a spark of it and you knock it down Yeah, I immediately just I didn't want that feeling. Yeah. Yeah, which is weird, right? Because that feeling is nice It is nice. It's yeah, it's why the fuck don't I want those? I I I don't want that. Yeah why Because you don't think you deserve it I Really? What do you think? I don't know. It's like a subconscious thing with me whenever I start feeling some type of way or i'm about to smile I immediately stop myself. Okay, so maybe we'll we'll we'll dig into that but for now we're gonna just it's good so if if you had a Feeling of buoyancy, we're gonna start to train you to like be able To just sit with that feeling the next time it comes up. Okay Mm-hmm, and even if you have to suppress it that's okay, but just notice that you're suppressing it. Okay, and don't judge yourself for it Good Now, how do you feel tell me what you feel actually I feel Looser Good, I feel loose. Okay. So now we're going to begin the practice. Okay Okay, okay So i'm gonna teach you something called ohm chanting and this is gonna be hard. Yeah, I know what this is This hits the hard choco, right? uh depends You can yeah, whichever ohm you do could hit different chakras. Yep. Yeah, so we're gonna do ohm chanting and i'm glad you have Some experience with it because I literally don't know if I can chant but I think that's what you need right now Okay, so i'm gonna demonstrate one round neck up straight. Oh, why do you do this? Yeah, don't you have this weird? Thing where you tilt to the side. Yeah, I have a I have a posture issue. Yeah, okay, so we gotta get you to a yoga class Okay, so i'm gonna chant ohm. It's composed I'm gonna try to chant ohm. It's composed of three syllables. Ah, ooh and um, and i'm gonna do it over the course of one breath Okay, so we're gonna start with ah, and then we're gonna go into ooh and then end with them. I'll demonstrate once you just listen. Okay? Yeah Oh Okay, so I want you to just listen to me for a second, okay, you got you got the hang of it You think you can do that? Yeah, okay. Good. So I want you to focus on meditation. I mean chanting is not about sound so it's not about your ears It's about vibration So I want you to feel the sounds in your body and you guys at home should do this as well, okay? Okay, uh, yeah so ready so deep breath in let's let's chant together, okay Ah Okay, bigger mouth more energy, let me hear you do it again There we go Oh Okay, so your your lips are not parting very much so I want a big mouth all the way open yeah good, okay Uh, oh, okay. Hold up. I'm getting coughed up Okay, see now i'm actually feeling anxiety for some reason that's okay It's because it's fucking weird what we're doing anxiety is completely natural Ah Big deep breath one more Um Okay, three more breaths, let me hear you do it three more. Yep Beautiful two more Okay, last one Oh Good now just sit and feel your body Do you feel the after image of vibration Oh, yeah, good just feel all yeah, yeah focus on the chest the belly Yeah, that's where I feel the anxiety good notice it Yeah, it's strange it's almost like It's just I feel tighter and like it's like coming out or something. Yep Yep So in the post meditative period the anxiety feels greater No, I feel I feel okay I can just feel that there's something That wants to express itself and i'm suppressing it still. Okay, so We're gonna chant three more times and I want you to really open your mouth and make an o for that first sound Okay Okay, okay, let's go. Yeah. Yeah, okay With your next two breaths let whatever it is that's in there let it out Ah Beautiful See like my heart's racing now, it's weird. Yep last one. Okay You can do it i'm with you, okay, hold up Ah Okay, open your eyes, okay All right, I feel very different how do you feel Like I just woke up Yeah, I feel uh I feel like it's easier to breathe a bit. It's just strange because like during that process I felt Uh like Chest pressure and I felt as though like I can't explain it. I just felt anxiety which Yeah, i've been good at suppressing it. I i'm very good at dealing with my anxiety and yeah, I feel like So I I don't I don't think that this means your anxiety is coming back I just think that remember how he's saying that you're something within you was manifesting as anxiety And now it is on dormant or manifested in other ways And I think as you let that stuff out it's manifesting in some ways is like anxiety again But that'll pass over time. Okay, okay. Yeah Yeah, I think if I were to practice Yeah, I think if I were to practice uh more more often I could really make headway on Expressing these things subconsciously right can't can't practice more often Oh, I can't do it more often. Nope, you can only do it today Okay, only today And then you can do it tomorrow once tomorrow becomes today, but more often is of the future Do you see that just thinking that now? Yep And and be careful so mitch I think you've got um, so just a couple of things So there are case reports of meditation induced psychosis so if the feelings of You know like if the feelings become dangerous or scary or things like that You don't have to meditate i'm very surprised that you had this reaction because generally speaking people don't have this reaction with chanting So, oh, yeah, I felt I felt like rage During it was more like anger just like expressing itself in a way. I couldn't quite understand. Yeah, man, so dude Yeah, you're like so it's not gonna take you years to get better you just have to keep Working at it. Okay, because what is within you wants to come out so fucking bad and once it's out it's gonna be out Like you've just suppressed so much. It's just it's like you're it's like leaking from the seams Oh, yeah, man. Sometimes I just randomly cry. I don't even know why I just started crying So so we just gotta let so we need to give your brain And your body a time and space to let some of that emotion out And once your body gets used to that it's gonna be like almost like a dog that gets trained to like pee in a particular place So I would highly highly recommend that you see a therapist because I think that'll accelerate this process and it's good that you're meditating and and all this other stuff because well Right now. Um, wait therapy is pretty expensive. Yeah Yeah, so do you have insurance? No, I have no insurance like pretty much what I have to do is just I need to stream and make some money and then I can possibly think about doing that but I have a lot of uh Like I said, I gambled myself into a financial hole where I probably can't do that right now Okay, that makes sense. So Okay, so so will um, let me just think about that for a second because I think you could really benefit from therapy Yeah, and um, and and so in the meantime, I think continue drinking your veggie juices and stuff like that. How are your bowel movements? Well, it depends on my sleep schedule, but if my sleep schedule is consistent I I I shit very well Yeah, I got some good shits. Okay. Good Um, so another thing my shits are always they're always blueberry color because I eat a lot of blueberries. Okay, good Um, yeah, so how are you feeling about today? I'm all right. You know, I mean I know I was uh I'm good. I'm feeling good about today I there's I'm a little bit still hung over from two days ago, but other than that i'm good You know, I drank a lot two days ago. I don't even know why I did I never drank either But I was with my buddy and I just decided to get hammered for some reason and that never goes well with me I don't know why drinking and me just don't really mix well. Sure. Yeah So but I mean, do you do you think that so you were nervous when we started? How did you think we've been talking now for almost two hours Yeah, how do you how do you feel like this went like are you were you comfortable with what we talked about today? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I felt I feel as though it went good. I feel as though we definitely We definitely got somewhere 100% I Help me understand that where did we get? We got I think you understand me a little more and I think I understand myself a little more and I think that's what we did today What do you understand about yourself That i'm always looking forward or back And i'm never really like just in the now Trying to accept responsibility for what's going on right now and instead i'm always living in some Somewhere else than right now and and then I beat myself up over something that either happened in the past or have or I think will happen in the future And instead of doing that I just need to live in right now and do what I can to Heal or get better. Yeah. Wow I didn't realize we talked about that, but it seems like that's new right chat Yeah, that's just how I feel though. I feel as though that was the that was like what I learned, you know, okay Yeah, no, I think I think you've learned a lot. That's just news to me Because I think that's the thing about being a person I think that's just news to me Because I think you really tied things together I think you you tied together a lot of the stuff that I thought we had covered some ground and I think you really tied it together beautifully Yeah, so I um, you know, so I think you know, we talked a little bit about regret and things like that as well And I think regret is about the past Anxiety is about the future And I I do believe Mitch that you know, I can understand why you think that you're unfixable or you're so broken because I think you've lived a long time being the same level of broken Yeah, so it can logically you can conclude that this is never going to get better, but I don't think that that's the case I think you're going to get better I think if yes, if you work at it and and you try to channel So I I want you to really think about this too I I don't mean to make things emotional or stuff like that right before we stop But I want you to think about what your mom would tell you when you're feeling down on yourself Because I think she's already taught you like the kind of dialogue like the way that you need to treat yourself is the way that she treated you Yeah And I don't know why whenever you mention my mom I get fucking sad It's like I get this like feeling in my nose. I got to sneeze. It's weird Yeah, because you have pent up emotion about your mom and I also think yeah anyway, we can talk more but I I I really think that she did just an amazing job of Treating you with unconditional love and that's actually something you need to learn how to do for yourself Yeah And if we're talking about like why something isn't healing it's because you like generally speaking unconditional love goes a long way clearing res debuffs And if you have I've never felt I I've never felt that with anyone else I don't know if it's possible I don't know if it's possible Yeah, with expect especially with the res debuff. I it's hard to like yeah love and receive love, you know Absolutely. I'm not it's it's very difficult and it's absolutely possible And even though I I know you you feel like you're old And by twitch standards you may be you may be the old man of twitch I Know 27 is not that old. I mean, there's still a lot of life left to live There's a lot of opportunity for love and relationships you ever gonna have the same relationship that you did with your mom. No but doesn't mean that you can't have relationships that are in the same ballpark and can still be wonderful And can be filled with unconditional love too Yeah Thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day I don't know Yeah, I'm I need a second hold up Okay, uh questions, um Nah, man. I'm mitch jones. You know, we're good bro. I'm good. Everything's good. Okay. Good. It's nice to see you smile Is it a genuine smile? Yeah, we're chilling man. I'm i'll be all right Are you not all right now I i'm good. Yeah, i'm good. I'm good. I just i'm good man. I'm just fucking I I don't know like when you talk about love I don't know man. It's like I think about love and like people and I truly I don't feel that way like yeah, I don't know man something weird just happened You were in a way better place like 60 seconds ago. So sorry for disrupting your nuts quit. No, it's totally cool It's not your fault. It's me It's like I you just made me think about love and my mom and how she unconditionally loved me and then I realized that the world is Will never be that way again for me. You know, that's I just had a moment of thinking like You know, I just I don't think i'll ever find that again. I truly hate I have a lot of hate inside of me, you know, and like it's like coming out right now and I apologize No, no, no, don't apologize. I I think it's I think that's why I was a little bit hesitant because I think it is somewhat of an open wound for you for me to bring it up, but I really I really do believe that you should learn how to talk to yourself the way that she talked to you And I think yeah When we talk about when we talk about, you know, what can you do in the moment? That is like the best example I can think of Yeah, yeah And I honestly think I i'm subconsciously recasting that spell again, you know Like right now like it was almost like gone for half a second And then it's just yeah, like I felt vulnerable and then I just put it back up, you know what I mean? Yeah, like when you said this weird like I've never I didn't understand what the fuck you were saying You said yeah, man. I'm mitch jones. We good. I was like what just that was you recasting the spell Yeah, I think it was yeah, it was me putting the mask back on like everything's fine, you know, like yeah No, no, no, no, no You so you so notice that like things were actually fine before that yeah and then things became like Bad again, and then you put on the mask But actually I would say five minutes ago. You actually felt pretty good Yeah, I did. Yeah, I felt I felt yeah, and now you can go back there. I can see you going back there a little bit So just notice your posture again Okay, yeah good right so now you're actually on the path to being good again Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah Really or not or not really? No. No, no, I totally am. I totally am. I just know that I'm just gonna i'm gonna leak i'm that's okay That's okay you leak but I want you to just notice how easy it is to move between the two easy come easy go right Yeah, and I get any time you can do that. You can just be like, all right, like i'm gonna get back to this place, right? Yes Yeah That is the goal of meditation to cultivate within yourself the capacity to go back to this place And suddenly if you're in this place, the world is not so heavy True That's good There we go Okay strong words on the image Yeah, yeah. Thank you. I appreciate it. Yeah, it was uh, like I said very uh Nervous and under I just didn't understand what we were gonna do But I feel like we did a lot and I didn't yeah, I we did a lot for sure I think is I don't know if you would like to speak again, but I believe there's There's so much man. I would just I would just love to tell you my whole story, man. Like I don't know I got I got lots of stuff that I could just Lots of stuff inside of me that I would love to just get off my chest, you know, sure. Sure. So let's set up Sets let's set up another time I'm Sorry, my voice is really going out. But mich look, I think you did a fantastic job today really strong work and i'm really um, I i'm I don't think Yeah, I don't I I think you're deserving of respect for what you've accomplished Not thank you. That means a lot to me. I hardly ever hear that and I really that means a lot to me Thank you Yeah Because I I think just because you've been living life with a ras de buff like that's actually pretty fucking amazing that you're able to do anything at all And I yeah, I think that you'll I appreciate that man. Yeah, so good luck with everything dude, and we'll set up another time to talk. Okay Yeah, sounds good, man. Okay. Take care. Bye. All right. Have a great day you two Okay, so He's a good guy man I And you know, he's he's like listen guys, so i've talked to a couple people now like on twitch who feel like they're unfixable So this is probably just because i'm naive and optimistic but like I just don't think that's the case man He's like he can get so much better. So so fast so fast And and it's I know that it can feel really hopeless like because and it's not it's not that it It's logical, right? That's the really crazy thing is that it's logical Because if you have felt the same way for like a decade He started feeling bad. He said around 2011 or one or something like that like something that happened with twitch a year ago A couple years ago But you know, I think it started with him something changed like something got busted when his mom was diagnosed with cancer And then for the next 10 years if you're a smart guy like mitch's You're gonna think that like this is not repairable because for 10 years it hasn't gotten fixed So it's completely logical And it happens to be wrong So if you guys are feeling hopeless about life It's not that you're stupid it's it's you're actually like you're smart and logical too It's it's that because you don't see your life moving forward. So you're gonna you're a smart person You're going to conclude that it's not going to move forward But I just don't accept that because I think that life can be drastically different very quickly In terms of getting help from people in terms of just one person entering your life In terms of learning how to meditate and in terms of learning how to take care of yourself getting a pet Like I don't know what it is, but it it life can become so drastically different with such a subtle And what seems like a small change like one person entering your life? So in my case I was directionless and hopeless and failing out of college and playing too many video games and stuff like that And then like I met one of my teachers in india, which just like blew my mind. It changed my life completely And I felt like there was someone who understood me and could teach me how to understand myself And then it's like it's like life is hard when you're blind like it's hard to drive a car if you can't see But you would be amazed at what you're capable of if you just take the blindfold off, right? And then it's like wow this shit like sight is op. It's like the the world is being navigated Everyone is driving around is wearing a blindfold And then there's some people who've discovered how to take off the blindfold. They're like this shit's op like sight is so op, man It's like I can drive around wherever I want to and I don't have to bump into anything ever And it seems so mind-blowingly different because that's just the way that we live like we've lost Touch with understanding who we are and how we function like that part of knowledge which was I mean I use yoga and that tradition because that's where I learned it But there are traditions of like not just psychology, but yoga is about understanding yourself, right? So like how do you as a human being work? Like what are the ways in which your mind works? What is what are the ways in which the food that you put into your body affects your mind? Why can't I do the things that I want to do like what are the things that If I think about the equation of behavior and engaging in a behavior What are all the things that go into that equation? We don't know we don't we don't know But you can learn you can study you can become aware and progress can happen way faster than you realize Like the good news guys is that it doesn't actually take like a decade to You know start the path of like transforming your life Sure like a decade later like you're gonna be in a very different place and it takes time right? So I started when I'm 21 when I was 21 and then started med school when I was 27 So that was six years and that was just starting med school And then it took me another like eight years to really become confident in who I am. So that was what like um 2018 2017 So like a 16 year process for me So like a 16 year process for me But it starts getting way better before it's not like at the end of 16 years You're like, oh like now everything's like it starts getting way better way before that So start i'm 37 Okay, so Yeah, you guys are over 22 and you feel old as fuck like I don't think you guys get this like you're gonna be around for 60 more years Right, like if you're 22 and you feel old as fuck imagine where you were five years ago Like gigantic Right the difference between the 17 year old you and a 22 year old you Is like huge and so you just give yourself that amount of time like that's so much time Five years is such a long time and then you're just gonna be 27 like you're not even like be 30 yet So so you have a lot of time and there's and it doesn't take that long to start getting on the on the right track again And with mitch i'm hopeful like I think you know, I know he's supposed to be the raid boss and everything but like dude You know if I mean helping someone who is so intelligent and reflective and tries so hard And has such vast reserves of willpower Like and he wants to get better like dude we're gonna help him he's gonna get help and he's gonna be better Like he's gonna do well Anyway, so thank you guys very much for for um watching and and showing up and hopefully this was helpful to y'all as well Um And uh, yeah, it was it was fun for me I enjoyed really talking to mitch I think he's a wonderful guy um And I have faith in him. I think he's gonna do well because he's just he's he's a fighter man He's a fighter and if he's like he's doing this well with this fucking Gigantic res debuff then imagine what he's capable of if we can cleanse that even a little bit like he's gonna do so well Just he needs time needs time