 It's crazy like what on earth why do people expend so much energy in hating you? The first thing to understand is that that has nothing to do with you like Lily I know I was talking about how you were amazing and inspirational and You can transform lives and all that good stuff I don't think you have it within you to inspire someone to mail something that comes from them. It doesn't come from you Yeah, are you feeling okay? I'm getting over a two week cold That's unfortunate Yeah, what do you what do you do to take care of yourself when you get a cold? Um, I try to take my quote the quote a lot of cough drops. I drink a lot of water Try to sleep Does that when you say try to sleep is it do you not get enough sleep? Um Yeah, wait lately trouble sleeping I'm sorry to hear that is that because you're sick um No, just in general, I don't know just recently okay I'm not supposed to dispense medical advice over the internet. So this is not medical advice. Yeah Okay, not so Recent studies have shown that honey lemon tea is actually equally effective To over-the-counter cough remedies. I mean cold remedies when it comes to actually treating symptoms Okay, so it's it's kind of bizarre but apparently like honey lemon tea works just as well And I don't have a reference at my fingertips for that right now, but I think it's actually they were looking at kids So this is a pediatric journal. So if you honey lemon tea, I you know works Well, I drink it a lot when I'm sick and It has vitamin C and other anti-inflammatory properties that can be good for you Okay, I've been drinking tea too. Good just doing everything I can to get better. Yeah good So and what am I what am I calling you? I know that Lily. Okay. Yeah, so hi, I'm all oak You nice to meet you. So can you help me understand a little bit about what we're talking about today? Sure, um, I don't understand myself I thought we were talking about feelings or something I don't know. You don't understand yourself. That's that's a great topic. You do not understand your feelings is also a great topic Sometimes people have a particular thing that they'd like to talk about or focus on So I was just curious if that's the case with you. I'm not sure Okay, that's right That's so can you tell me a little bit about Hmm Do you I'm just curious about if I should just ask you about sleep and we can kind of get through think you get to things That yeah, so how long have you had trouble sleeping? like two months What's been going on over the last couple of months I broke up with my boyfriend. Hold on one two months ago Hello Hi Okay, she's kind of loud. Okay. Thank you. All right. Bye So my mods try to sometimes get my attention when I'm talking to people but I'm so absorbed in the person that I'm talking to That I've given them permission to call myself a friend And they were saying that you're too loud is she better now Am I better now test hello testing one two three testing testing Double rainbows better better. Okay Okay, okay All right. So you were saying two months ago you broke up with your boyfriend Yeah, yeah Okay Okay Yeah Yeah And you haven't been able to sleep since then um, not well cuz I Guess we're just he he cheated on me. So shit. Yeah, I know it's super super hard And sorry to hear ever since then Yeah, sleeping is really hard What happens when you try to sleep? Um, so usually Sorry, hold on So, um, let's pause for a second, what are you feeling? Fine I Sorry What are you apologizing for I Can't control Being sad Where do you get the presumption that you have to control being sad, where does that come from? I have no idea Okay Sorry, I just Um, oh yeah, just apologize if my nothing is a bad habit I'm trying to break that Okay, so I want to point something out So if you're if apologizing for nothing is a bad habit, you're trying to break that Are you judging yourself for apologizing too much? Yeah, yeah, right. So so that's something that we're gonna keep an eye on Because I think that's something about We're just gonna put a pin in that we'll come back to that. I'm sure Yeah, I hope we will but how does it do you do you feel like you're not allowed to be sad Sometimes Well, I stream for a living great, um, so uh, I don't like like I don't want to seem like I'm throwing like a pity party I guess cuz um, Like I don't want to appear like I'm not strong but I don't think you know, does that make sense? Yeah, so Yeah, so do you think that? Okay, so this is great. I'm glad we're talking about this. What do you think? So if you are sad on stream What is that? How do you understand the impact of that? Is that like a good thing or is it a bad thing? Are you disappointing people? I think sometimes I rely too much on like sadness or depression or stuff like that. I joke about it a lot because That's I think a lot of me. I do a lot of stuff that we can human stuff like that I'm trying to not because I don't want to be seen as like I don't want that to just be me, right? Yeah, so let's understand something very subtle that you said I don't want to be seen as and I don't want that to be me Yeah, those are two very different things Okay, does that make sense or no Yeah Yeah, so I I agree so I think this is what I've already noticed with streamers is that the person it gets confusing like who you are because You don't want to be seen a certain way and you don't want to be a certain way But the way that you're perceived in the person that you are are like fundamentally different things But I think a lot of times people get into trouble because they start like those two things become blended Okay, does that make sense? Yeah so What are you when it comes to being sad? Why do you apologize for feeling sad? Let's not judge it Let's not say it's bad because I don't necessarily think it's bad Let's try to understand why you're doing that and where that's coming from I guess I feel bad that I fall back on like Depression humor and joking about it like too much Like every time I turn on my stream and I talk about my feelings or whatever It always comes back to like depression or sadness or something like that and I don't like that What don't you like about that? I feel like I should be more positive Why I don't know if people watch me to feel sadder Okay, so let's great. So let's explore that for a second. If you talk about sadness How do you think other people feel who are watching? Sometimes they say like it's cool that I talk about sadness because they can relate But other times I get the feeling that oh Lily's talking about depression again, you know you get that feeling Right. So let's let's tunnel down into what you said again, because I think this is important. Sometimes people say that It resonates with them and it helps them relate and other times you get the feeling That oh Lily's talking about sadness again Yeah, do people say oh Lily's talking about sadness again, um Very rarely Yeah, so how do you understand that? I Guess I take it too. Seriously. It's not I don't think I Think that's like a very minority Yeah, most people find it relatable but yep, I Know I guess I worry that I talk about too much anyway, I don't know if that's good or not Yeah, so let's take a step back from what's good and what's not good because in my experience Judgment doesn't help us so much I think let's start with understanding and then we can sort of decide From a clear mindset like what we want to do and what we don't want to do like what we want to cultivate and what we Don't but I'm already noticing that if you're concerned about something How do you think that shapes your perception of whether that thing is happening or not um If I'm worried about something I feel like it becomes a reality even if it's not Real absolutely. Absolutely. That's exactly what it does, right? So if I'm concerned that my hair is look silly and then I'm walking down the street and someone looks in my direction I just automatically assume that they're looking at my hair because it's silly even though it's a street and They're just gonna be people looking in my direction, right? So you're absolutely correct that sometimes if we are concerned about something We feel like we get information to reinforce it Yeah, that sounds about right yeah I think I can't let it get to my head too much Let it get to my head too much Yeah, so so that too, but that's normal, right? So I I'm noticing subtle amounts of judgment when you say I let it get to my head too much That implies that you should there's another side to that statement, which is that you should let it get to your head less Do you see that? Yeah, and so so these statements the self-critical statements are like they're very reflexive for you Do you yeah, they are they I've always done this and I wish I didn't but it's it just slips out I Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So so that's a pattern of the mind and it's unfortunate that you do that in the sense that it causes you Suffering but I do think that we can try to understand like where you learned how to do that and hopefully teach you a different way to like think about yourself But let me just kind of go back to this the streaming thing because I think So I'm gonna just think for a second. Is that okay? I'm just I'm just trying to make a mental list of like stuff to think about and not lose track of Okay, so I'm gonna go back to the statement that you made that you're you sometimes you feel like you talk about it too much Hmm so in the context of what we're talking about now, this is kind of a weird abstract read my mind question But what do you think about that? like do you think you actually talk about depression too much I Genuinely think sometimes I do fall back on it too much Cuz well when you stream like every day for example, right? There's only so many things you can talk about yourself Like stream knows a lot of things about me already, right? And I guess I like out of habit I just talk about the person because it was such a big part of my life Yeah, and and if you if you talk about it too much like what is that? How do you know what's too much? I Guess it's just my own personal way of quantifying it like oh I talked about this the last dream and the last dream. I shouldn't talk about it this dream Oh, I made a joke about it again. Oops Yeah, so why do you think people come back to your stream like do you think people are looking for like in general When you're watching something on Twitch, how do you decide who to watch? Okay, don't know why people watch do you have do you have a yeah, but do you watch people on Twitch? I'm making assumption. I watch me. I watch my friends a lot. Okay support them and Let's talk about restaurants actually. So when you're going to a restaurant Why do people like do you go to like do you have some favorite restaurants in the area? Yes, okay. So like what are some of your favorite restaurants? There's this really nice Thai place and has really nice Thai iced tea and it's walking distance. Oh Wait, you mean that you go to the Thai restaurant again and again for Thai iced tea Yeah, you don't go for something different every time. Um Sometimes I do sometimes I feel like I'll export a menu a little but mostly because it's walking distance And it's good and it's cheap and yeah. Yeah, and you sort of consistently you go there for consistency, right? yes so in general like when I watch things like I know I tend to watch things like so when I I Mean, I I like Dota. Okay, and I know you sometimes play League of Legends, right? Do you like League of Legends? Less so but I know that that's gonna Sorry add me She played League of Legends I Don't play League of Legends, but you don't play League of Legends. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Yeah No But you know, I probably should because most of the people that I know play League of Legends so I may install So but when I when I what for example like when I watch like when I go to like the Dota streamers like I'm not Going to the Dota streamers to watch football Or cooking I'm going to them to watch Dota And why do you think I mean you sort of talk about so you're you talk about depression a fair amount on stream You think you talk about it too much But what I'm guessing is that and based on what you've told me like it sounds like that resonates with people and Maybe part of what they like about stream is that you can play League of Legends and you probably have some fun other content That you do and sometimes you talk about depression Hmm and that the people who probably feel a little bit sad and lonely and are somehow inspired by some of the work that you Do like to see that you're like a complex human being who has a full range of feelings because it sort of allows them To have a full range of feelings What do you think about that? Paints in the area Wholesome light like when you say it like that. So when when you say paints it in a very wholesome light I'm wondering I'm wondering is that is there a part of you that's sort of like yeah, that sounds great But that's not really how it is It's like I want to believe that Good, right, but you don't like I 60% believe yeah. Yeah. Good. So that's what I'm saying Is that is that there's a there's a there's an undercurrent of a but which is perfectly fine So let's just notice that right which is that I'm painting it in a rosy light But that there's like something else. That's like there's a party that's kind of like bullshit Yeah, okay, so good yeah what Sorry, you said always diarrhea. Yeah, that's good. I I live on Yeah, so so our goal here is to understand the different voices in your head right so there's a part of you that sort of It thinks that in theory what I'm saying is fine, but that just doesn't feel real to you Sometimes yeah. Yeah, okay. I have to use where I'm like, yeah people are watching me cuz they like watching me I'm cool. Like I'm awesome. And these are I'm like dude, you don't deserve these How long do these there are days and and what kind of person doesn't deserve those viewers Can we talk about the person that you are on those days? Sure, um Okay, well, I think I got into streaming by like complete luck really like if you start streaming now I know like the market is like super saturated right super hard to get into I was lucky to start years ago when it wasn't That saturated I'm lucky enough to have like I live in a streamer house That helped me a lot When I got cheated on my boyfriend like two months ago that that told drama gave me like huge influx of viewers so that was like Very sudden right like I got thousands of years for some reason so sometimes on those days, it's like Am I doing enough to deserve this success? And I Think that makes a lot of sense to have you I'm gonna think for a second. Is that okay? Thanks for the somebody just gifted a bunch of subs bonds chorno. Thanks for the gifted subs Oh, and thanks for the read the other day. I didn't realize thank you. Oh, yeah, you're welcome Okay, so you sometimes have self-critical thoughts about about yourself right like you sort of say that I don't deserve So let me ask actually ask you this is it that you don't know what you've done to deserve this and you're pleasantly Surprised or is there a part of you that feels like actually you don't deserve this. I'm like pleasantly surprised like Okay, I feel so lucky Sometimes that's just really hard to take in like wow, what did I do to deserve? Yeah, so okay very good, so why is it hard to take in Emotional Um So I'm like emotional today, I don't know um What are you feeling what when I asked that question, what are you feeling? Um I Feel you need a minute. Yeah, just take a minute Let's just feel what you're feeling I Tell me what you're feeling physically in your body What does that mean I Feel Frustrated I'm trying to talk. I can't talk if I cry. I'm trying not to cry. It's very frustrating. Yeah, so Let's let's try not to talk because let's just talk about this for a second Okay, you're coming on here with the expectation that you're supposed to talk Yeah, yeah, that's not what you're here for because you talking is for who Myself I don't know I don't think so because because if I mean, I think I think you talking is probably more for the viewers, right? Oh Yes Yeah, so let's not worry about them because I try my best I mean, I I mean no offense to anyone who's watching but like I think that that's Really just about me in view this is a conversation between two people that thousands of people people happen to be watching Okay, but let's not try to do something for them Let's just try to do something for you and if that means periods of awkward silence Then periods of awkward silence Okay, because I I think what is actually gonna benefit them The most is if you instead of trying to push down your feelings and talk to give a performance You just give yourself the time and space to feel what you feel you understand what you feel And then I think that's what helps people So, you know and we'll get back to the sadness because I can see it's going away a little bit Okay, yeah It is going away Yeah, it's just sorry gotta put it out sometimes. Yeah. Yeah, good. Good. I cry a lot Okay Okay How um How um What's that about Crying yeah, like what do you mean by cry a lot? Uh, I just feel like therapeutic sometimes just crying letting it out like cathartic like I just want to let it out Yeah, do you feel better afterward? I do I do. Yeah, do you cry on stream? Uh, I try not to Okay Okay. Um So I I think the most recent batch of crying happened when I asked you why it's hard for you to that feeling lucky is like Like it's hard for you, right? So feeling like people actually care about you and that you're lucky and that You know, you're successful like It seems to me that it feels kind of it's hard for you Why do you think that is how do you understand that um, yeah, I think it ties into the whole like Uh because I got like The influx of viewers right from the drama thing, whatever um that and I just Wonder what i'm doing really like yeah, I turn on my stream I I do my thing, you know, like I talk about feelings or draw or like play music or whatever, right? but sometimes I do it and i'm just like Is this like entertaining like is this fun to watch like? Why why? And I don't um, I don't think i'm like That special Yeah Okay. So I I think what i'm hearing from you is you don't deserve What the world is giving you Oh and then sometimes people say like oh you only have yours because Your girl or like you have a cute voice or freaking your voice or whatever the hell they say about me. Um or like Just or like because of your roommates who are more popular than you or And how does that sit with you uh Doesn't make me feel good because i'd want people to watch me because uh, just because of me, right? yeah, but yeah, and I also think like there's like a bunch of people out there who Are you know talent more more talented more pretty like prettier more entertaining? so sometimes it's like And I also worry about like relevancy too and twitch streaming is super Important you could be a nobody in a month, right? And this is my job Okay, so i'm hearing a lot of different things i'm gonna try to Um try to go through these like one at a time. So the first is that There's a part of me that feels like you don't feel like you deserve success that's why you use the word luck Right, like like if we think about why people invoke luck it's because like luck is like on on one end of the spectrum in like something that you deserve or worked for Or earned like earned and luck are on two opposite ends of the spectrum, right? And there may be luck involved. I don't know but but the first thing that I understand when you say that you kind of feel Lucky, so there's a there's a difference between Feeling privileged and grateful that people are interested in you and supporting you and things like that And I get the sense that you definitely feel that way And there's also like another feeling that can happen Which is like what's sort of wrong with these people and why are they interested in me? Because there are people who are as you put it prettier and what? More talented more talented. Yeah better They're better than you right? So so that implies to me that somewhere along the way You feel like you don't you got the idea or there's a part of you that believes that you don't deserve to be successful Um Something And so my question for you And then there's the haters which we'll we'll get to in a second. But yeah, okay um My question to you is like how long have you felt like you don't deserve to be happy or successful Um I feel like it's like Since I started almost because I got into this job By luck, you know When you first start off, I think a lot of things are kind of by luck, you know You kind of stumble upon it. Oh all of a sudden it's my My job I can do this and I used to be super inconsistent even more so than now I used to Literally just not get out of bed and mainstream like once a month if my fans were lucky Um, I use I was super low effort super super low effort And like for some reason I still had fans who would still watch me, right? so luckily I got into this streamer house that helped motivate me to work more and Become like a more consistent streamer um Yeah, and I I guess and also that again I keep bringing this up It was a huge thing where I got like a poop ton of viewers, right? All of a sudden almost overnight And then it made me think like oh, what can I do to like deserve these viewers? How can I make them stay? How can I make how can I feel like i'm? like Be happy as this type of streamer, I guess Can you help me understand what what happened? I mean you you because you you do keep coming back to this So you got an influx of viewers because you got cheated on by your boyfriend Yeah, in a very public manner. It was super public. Even my parents heard about it. It was like There were articles it was just shit tons. Sorry. Am I a little crazy? Yeah, I think so Okay, like just I'm okay tons of videos about it. Um threads people messaging me like it was overwhelming for me So i'm new to twitch So can you help me understand why your boyfriend on cheating on you? And because we were a very public couple so you guys like you're like a celebrity I don't like that right. I mean, I don't like the word either but from the boomer world where I come from Yeah, yeah, okay fine like pseudo celebrity It's not right. So like i've never heard I mean so I have you know I know people in my life who sometimes deal with infidelity and i've never heard about anyone writing articles about it Okay. Yeah. Okay. So yeah, there were some articles there were yeah It's because we were a very public couple. I involved him in a lot of my content actually like everything. Okay I drew him we did music together. We collabed together like I was super serious about because when I when it comes to relationships i'm very like If I choose someone i'm hard committing like I see myself with you for the rest of my life so Yeah, we were together for two years or so and I found out when I was in Japan in another country, um with him with all of my friends, uh, and then I Didn't want it to blow up but it did and And Sorry, I I I still feel bad about that. Like if there's one thing I could change I would be I would try to make it more private break up nicely instead like everyone knows about it and um I felt bad because He also got like a lot of hate Sorry I don't think if anyone deserves that amount of hate even if you fuck up Ever since then um That's where the trouble sleeping comes from I think from then I haven't been able to really sleep I've been trying to distract myself um, but distract yourself from what just Just feeling like this, I guess And how do you feel Really sad still what does that mean sad? I'm sad because I wish it didn't happen. I wish the entire internet didn't know about it I wish things could just go back to normal But I know it's never gonna be like that again Um, so I've been trying to Yeah, distract myself. Just try to move on, you know And I feel sometimes feel like Just kind of weak. I guess because I I feel like I should be over it I know Okay Lily I don't think sad is the best word to describe what you're going through I think what you need to do to move on so first of all, you know I know that you blame yourself for not being good enough And that's a thing so I'd like to talk, you know at some point Maybe we can talk about that. Maybe not today actually because I'm getting the sense that Maybe understanding is actually even a little bit premature just just with where you are And I think the first thing that I'd like to share with you is that I think what you need to do is grieve I don't know if you've ever thought about it like this I tried dreaming. Um I know it's bad, but I drank a lot just Crying letting it all out. I and I think like there are days where I'm like, okay. I'm good I'm not good. I'm not good. I'm not good There are days where I'm like, okay, I'm good. Um, I can do this but then I get things where it's like That's fuck it hurts Just hurts. Yeah, so I don't think drinking is griefing. Oh, it's not Right. It's just me just trying to like cope and distract. I know it's bad. Yeah, I know. Yeah, so So so let's just think about grief So like what are the things that you do when you grieve for someone have you have you like someone that you care about passed away? Yeah, does it have to be a person? No, yes so so If we think about like when someone can is it okay if we talk about that for a second? Sure, because because what i'm hearing from you is that you'd like to move on from this Right and and in a sense, I think you're doing a good job because There are days that you're able to like kind of fully function It sounds like you're able to find joy and happiness and and pleasure in life And then there are days where this thing kind of like rears its ugly head Yeah, and unfortunately, that's how grief works. So grief doesn't It's not like you beat a level It's like it's like, you know, once you beat a level like you randomly go back to that level when grief decides that we're going to Go back to that place But I wonder if there's also some ways in which we can help you move on I mean, I even want to say like faster sounds like the wrong sentiment But for us to understand what you're going through and if there's some way that like if we can understand what you're going through Maybe we can make the process easier or less bumpy for you And my first thought is like when you think about someone that you lost Do you think that you've grieved for that person or animal? Um appropriately like do you feel like you've you're you're in a good place with that? Um, all I do is just cry is that good? I don't know. Yeah, sure But I mean, do you still feel do you still cry about the person that you lost? I do I do does it feel like does it feel bad when you cry? um Not necessarily it feels Again cathartic, I guess yeah, so that's that's important, right? So like either two kinds of crying There's the crying that sort of feels good at the end of it. And then there's the crying that sort of Can also sort of feel good temporarily but isn't quite cathartic and doesn't look good Lead to less crying. There are two kinds of crying There's the cathartic crying which over time leads to less crying and processing of feelings And then there's the crying that sort of just is experiencing awfulness That doesn't necessarily decrease the amount of awfulness down the road You with me? Yes, I put it out and um, what are we calling your boyfriend? What should I you can? Should I just say your boyfriend or do you want to use a name? His name is albert. Okay, so when it comes to albert um You know when you cry about that, which way does it feel? It doesn't feel cathartic It feels more like i'm grieving that I lost it and I want it back, but I can't like It's like just a loss. I guess yeah, so and this is going to be kind of weird but Um, do you feel Confident that you can find being a good committed healthy relationship again I don't know if I want to commit That idea is like it's really scary now, I guess because yep, I put everything into this and he Did that so what's to say that's not going to happen again or It just feels very scary like the idea of Committing yourself to one person now, I guess. Yeah, absolutely I think it it I mean I imagine if I were in your shoes, I would be terrified of it It's very not only that because like my whole brand is just really being open with my viewers as well I tell them a lot of things So if I were in a relationship right i'd want to share it and want them to be part of my life But last time that happened public it was so yeah public it became public and it became so messy and like I don't want to like deal with that every can you know? scary Yeah, so I i'm noticing a tension within you and sort of like Even if you had another relationship, do you sort of stay true to? Kind of the unspoken promise to your fans, which is that they get to see the inside of your life and thereby open yourself up to you know the pain of a very public and You know commented on breakup where apparently he also got a lot of hate Or do you change the the way that you interact with your fans? Which sounds like it's probably compromising or sacrificing something I Know I yeah Because it feels bad hiding such a big part of my life I like Having if I had a significant other i'd want them to be you know Just part of what I do like I want to collab with them. I want to spend time with them I want to work with them. I want to I want to do things with you know, so it's like It's weird. It sounds like your relationship with uh, it's albert Yes Um with albert was pretty perfect But it seemed like I thought I thought I'd marry him I thought it was like You know, he was great. I I really really loved him like He we yeah, we had a lot of similar interests we We played music together. We um We got along really well. I had no idea that he wasn't happy Um How do you know he wasn't happy? Because he we talked afterwards he he told me the reasons why because I wanted to know and Yeah And I felt bad because he bottled a lot of things in too Um, I wish he told me but he didn't and that just manifested in this really ugly manner and Just felt bad. It was really bad What does that mean bad That he couldn't tell me that he couldn't Communicate with me like I would have done anything to fix whatever right? I Really would have done anything. Um Like he told someone else Like I know you're not supposed to compare yourself, but I don't like what did they have that I didn't And I thought I was a good girlfriend but I guess It wasn't Yeah, lily there's something very subtle and and Honestly dangerous that you're doing. I I think you're accepting a lot of responsibility for things that are not your responsibility So like I'll just put it to you bluntly like there's something that really makes me angry at the thought that someone feels like this that If a relationship didn't work out and I hear you say that I mean I have no idea what kind of girlfriend you are or what kind of boyfriend albert is or so I can't judge this But I hear this thread consistently in what you're saying that you kind of say That you kind of say like you weren't good enough of a girlfriend whereas like I don't know if that's true Right, like i'm hearing this theme of like I wasn't like if if he had told me I could have done something about it And you feel like that's sort of a deficiency on your part That he wasn't with Maybe I was too clingy. I don't know maybe yeah, right So so just notice what you're doing there is like you're accepting responsibility for like everything that happens around you Right that if you had been better he would have been able to be more open If you had been a more better girlfriend and less clingy like he would have stayed If you had been more entertaining or more talented or more attractive you would have gotten these viewers without drama Yeah Yeah, do you see that thread so like I think we've got it and i'm struggling i'm really struggling here because There's a part of me that says that you're hurting right now And there's something that is really at the top of mind for you Which is this relationship and how you're kind of thinking about yourself, but there's another part of me that says that All of this stuff comes from like one common place because it's like the same theme Which is that like lily sometimes isn't good enough And i'd like to understand I mean I and i'm i'm torn so maybe you can help me out Like what do you think we should talk about should we try to understand where that comes from or should we talk about? Albert and sleep and how you feel in the process of grieving I have no idea I don't either. I'm very indecisive. Uh, okay. Well that makes two of us So what are we gonna do about that Um maybe the first one then okay, so Or the second I Can you pick for me? I'm sorry. I'm not gonna pick for you. Oh Okay, i'm gonna coin toss Okay Wait, what are your choices? Okay. Um just Um I mean so so the the choices are like do you want to talk about The last two months and sleeping and grieving and relationships Or do you want to talk about where you got the idea that you're not good enough? Maybe not good enough Okay That seems more Yeah What happened to your indecisiveness? I have to make a decision. I feel bad stalling Okay I could live with that So so let me ask you how long have you so so, you know when you feel like you don't deserve Success, let's say and I know that you don't always feel that way. Right? So this is something that It's almost exactly so so like let's just first appreciate that It's almost like something there's like a dormant lily there's like the lily who doesn't think that she's like good enough Can we like conceptualize her that way? Okay, and then sometimes like is there like is there some way that you can think of that we can kind of put a name to her? Lily two lily two, okay And so is there some way that so how and lily too like sometimes wakes up in your mind, right? There are days that you something is happening like some days you get out of bed and it's like lily too Who's running the show and you're self-critical and you're self-judgmental and there are other days where it's like regular lily is running the show And you can feel grateful. What? Yeah, I like that. I like Feeling like that. I wish I could feel like that every day We're gonna get there. Okay. I mean maybe not at the end of the hour, but we're gonna get there so And then there's certain There's certain things that like even if lily one is like if regular lily is waking up and is living your day Something can happen at 3 p.m. Where lily two sort of takes over right like some kind of interaction Yes, or someone says something to you 500% Yes, right. So lily two is like a part of you that wakes up or goes to sleep Yeah, pretty much Yeah, and and so the solution that we have is oddly enough not Executing lily two and dumping her in the river What to do that though? I know you would but that's not how it works and that's what happens every time You know you drink to excess or whatever like that's what distraction and coping is it's pushing lily two away What we actually need to do is like like let's let's just think for a second. How does lily two feel? How does lily two feel yeah Dread okay dread about what? Everything yeah So dread I think of is fear So lily two is afraid of of certain things happening. What is she afraid of? Um everything like uh her career Yep um And what is the fear about her career? Streaming is seems volatile. Yep. Kind of scary. Yep. I want to do other things I have other dreams I want to do other things I have other dreams that I don't know if I can fulfill but i'm trying my best This doesn't sound like lily two to me Sorry, this is really one or two or three. I don't we're talking about lily two. So so and that's okay So let me just try to venture something right? So I would be I would imagine that if lily two is waking up which is sort of like the sad depressed Lily two isn't good enough. It's that she won't be able to cut it streaming that one day She's going to wake up and what she's afraid of is that people are going to realize that she doesn't deserve the success that she's getting And that they're going to kind of see you for who you are and they're going to move on to someone else Yeah, is that a fear of lily two is that accurate that's a fear that's a fear, okay, okay So what do you think that person needs? if your friend Was like let's say like you say you live in a house full of streamers, right? Yeah, so if one of your friends says like voices those fears to you What do you do for her? Or him I try to reassure them that they are good enough that they they're they are good. They're great They got here for a reason Yeah, like here to support them Okay, and how does that work for your friend? Um, they would appreciate it. Yeah, and so what do you say to lily two? I'm like deserve it and you're good enough. Is that what you say to lily two? I try sometimes Good that's impressive Yeah, that that's really good how does that work um Sometimes it works You know, like I tell myself like yeah, you're good enough. You can do this like People like you you're you're great. You know, you're good And that's great On the days it works. It's great And on the days that it doesn't The days it doesn't work. It's just like, uh, fuck everything I'm going back to bed yeah, so so like I just wanted to point that out to you for a second because What you're doing to lily two when you say actually you are good enough and and you have worked hard and from what I hear from you, I I think you are I mean who deserves success is sort of a separate issue, but I hear a lot about what you've worked hard to do and I mean I think you're deserving of your success for the simple reason that you were telling me that you used to be consistent and then it sounds like You made a lot of large-scale changes to your life and you put forth a lot of effort into like actually, you know Doing a good job And that in spite of actually a lot of internal demons that you struggle with you still managed to Stream somewhat consistently and things like that, which I think is really amazing Okay and Also that doesn't so there's some days where that wins But but there are other days where it loses Yeah And I just want to point out that that's not actually like shooting lily two and dumping her in the river, right? Does that make sense? Like there's a part of you that wants to dump her in the river and I suspect that that's part of the reason why Because I actually think that You know, there's there's like a fight between like lily one and lily two, but what you described is not a fight between lily one and lily two It's lily one doing what for lily two? Getting rid of her? No What? No, right. So when you tell yourself What do you tell yourself when sometimes you're feeling down? What do you tell yourself when sometimes you're feeling down? Oh, um that you're good enough Is that getting rid of her? No, it's not. Um, uh trying to Support her. Yeah, absolutely. That's the very opposite of getting rid of her. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah Yeah, so so and I think it's it's a it's a normal it's something that's very confusing and lily I think you're actually one step ahead of the game because most people when they when they have a part of themselves that feels like they're um You know very self-critical self-judgmental where you feel like you're not good enough You want to get rid of them, right? Like when I ask you like you want to dump them in the river? You're like hell yes I want to be happy for the rest of my life But what what I think you actually need to do which i'm really happy to hear that you're able to do this for yourself is actually like like Actually, i'm not gonna say that i'm gonna ask you a few more questions Okay, so let's let's think about where lily two comes from So how long have you like when like do you remember feeling that way like in the past? Yeah, like how long has lily two and let's just be clear. So who is lily two? the Depressed one the sad one. Yep. Yep. And and more specifically, what do we mean by depressed and sad? I Scared Okay scared I think Do you so I would say that what i'm hearing from you is that like lily two isn't good enough Oh, yeah, that that too That too, so it sounds like there's more to it No, no, that's probably No, I mean if there is that's fine. So let's just try to understand so like when you're feeling sad and depressed when it comes to thinking about albert Is there a part of you that feels like? You know, there's a part of you that's sad because you had something beautiful and now it's gone And there's also this part of you that creates these thoughts like oh if I had done this then he would have stayed If I had been better at listening if I had been less clingy Then that could have worked out sometimes sometimes right and so Okay, so when you say sometimes are there I think there's a healthy sadness and there's an unhealthy sadness within you And then I think the healthy sadness is just you know, kind of the normal sadness And sometimes that can be cathartic as you put it But then there's an unhealthy sadness where you think certain thoughts about yourself And how the relationship made you feel that's not quite the same as like fearing relationships in the future and stuff because that's kind of a different thing But I do think there's like actually more than just two lilies There's like lily three and there's lily four But right there are a lot of lilies and And what i'd like to focus on is the one who leads you to thoughts like you were too clingy Or if you had been better, he would have talked to you or things like that Does that make sense? We're going to focus on her so How long have you felt like you're kind of undeserving of success or that you're kind of? A long time Okay a long time uh I don't know if I can pinpoint it, but it feels like it's been like Just there all my life, right? Okay. Do you have uh, any memories of like things that happened when you were young that sort of made you feel that way? Yeah So I remember when I was younger My parents are very traditional korean. They wanted me to go to like Good college and stuff, right? Um, I got depression in high school And that made me feel like not good enough and I ended up almost failing and went to community college And then I had no idea what to do. I was like, okay, I'm going to go to college And went to community college And then I had no idea what to do with my life I had nothing to offer really so I stumbled upon youtube and streaming just by chance. I started making like, you know, cute little videos With voice acting and like art and stuff like that people liked it So I started doing that um But even throughout all that I wasn't consistent I thought everything I made was like whatever But it gave me something to do so I continued What do you mean by got depressed in high school? Oh, okay. I used to fight a lot with my parents. I was very suicidal very very depressed Um, it took my mom some time to realize how serious it was She didn't believe me at first uh and then I just felt like really A failure I guess in high school because um, I would not go I would not get out of bed I would refuse to go to school. I almost missed the minimal attendance thing So I almost failed and I remember I was talking with the counselor and she was like Yeah, your GPA is like 2.1 points, you know, whatever. I don't give a fuck. I just Did not care I guess I didn't know what I wanted to do I didn't know. Yeah, I wanted to so but I mean it sounds like the the fighting with your parents is a consequence Of your depression not the origin of your depression I guess I don't know how the depression started. I really don't okay. Can you tell me about what middle school was like for you? Middle school was okay. Actually like up until well elementary school Okay, so elementary school there was a period of time where I had no friends for like two three years That was hard and then I got into middle school I moved and I made friends and I'm like, oh, okay I'm happy. I thought it was generally like a happy time. I was doing well in school. I had friends I was Socializing it was fun. I went to high school. The first year was fine. I remember I was like I had a lot of hopes I wanted to go to college. I wanted to like succeed. I wanted to do a lot of things and then like 10th grade, uh started fighting with my parents a lot I retreated into like internet forums and stuff What would you fight with your parents about? Just I don't remember. It's like they would be really angry at me for uh Like just not Going to school not getting the grades or just being really useless in general Like I literally did not do anything. I just stayed in bed all day and I was playing a lot of video games At that time they hated that they hated me going on the computer so much that they hid They used to hide the mouse and the keyboard in the basement and when they went to work I would Bring it up. I used to play a lot of like mmorpgs A lot of them. I that was like my escape just mmorpgs Uh, and which ones yeah, I used to play vagnarok online a lot. Mm-hmm Yeah vagnarok online there was maple story just any like mmorpg around that time like I just I played them all I tried them all It was really fun and I got into like I made friends on the internet. So like, you know, I don't need friends in real life Yeah Um, how did it feel when your parents were angry with you? felt really bad like I was disappointing them and they would like we got into these fights were really really bad like there were parts where she would Threaten to call like the psychiatric ward and like take me in and stuff and like She told me once I remember I can't forget this like I was 15 years old She was dropping me off at high school. I think I'm yeah high school, of course And we had a fight in the car and she she told me like she wished I was never born So that stuck with me for a long time my relationship with my parents are great by the way right now It's like wonderful. But back then it was just so bad So bad Oh, and then she would also like Um compare me a lot to other children, right like the whole Oh classic my classic father has like straighties So asian, I know and i'm like and i'm just like, yeah, whatever mom i'm gonna go back to my mmorpg Uh, yeah Very asian I think she also made comments about my weight too so I always felt like fat even though I wasn't fat i'm done Yeah, so Uh, how do you How would they how would that make you feel and we're not trying to bash your parents here? Okay, so Oh, no, no, they're great I think they just you know, I have asian parents too. I mean indian parents but um Um My dad when we were young said so I have an older brother And uh, this is the story that I would tell during med school interviews So they would ask me why do you want to be a doctor? And then I I said well my dad when we were growing up said one of you is going to be a doctor and one of you Is going to be a lawyer And my brother is older than I am so he got to choose first and he got he went to law school. So here I am That's funny, yeah so you know, I I think I think asian and south asian parents are very similar in terms of You know you have a there's a there's a very specific sense of what success is in life and um In a sense, I i've come to realize it's not their fault It's just because that's the formula for them right like that's how they got to this country Is by like working hard and and not playing mmos They did um come around eventually obviously, right? Yeah, and I think they realized how much they fucked up with me. So like my brother and I like to joke He's my younger brother. I'm like the beta product and he's like the final product My brother had no issues like he went to like an engineering college. He's he's great. He's fine. He's Super healthy and how are you? Me yeah, what way in the same way that you're talking about your brother oh, I Guess I found success I know sorry just microphone. Um Yeah, by chance miraculously my mom says it's a miracle I somehow got here to where I am And yeah Still very like wow to me still Yeah, I was like, I didn't know what I was gonna do for so long sure Do you I'm still okay I'm gonna need a second I'm just trying to understand so i'm gonna say something and maybe this is not gonna be fair But i'm just curious whether twitch chat is as confused as I am uh Right, like are you guys confused or does this make sense to you? What did I do? Did I say something wrong? No, no, you didn't say anything wrong. It's just It blows my mind that And it's hard because I think I think that um I'm just gonna think for a second Okay Okay So I was about to say it blows my mind that you're not able to see that you Have value I'm going to steer clear of this word success, but that that you have immense value and that and that Just because you didn't find You didn't follow the road that was scripted doesn't mean that you didn't find your own way and that you were You are deserving of respect because Even more so than like just going to an engineering school Like you struggled and you found your own path you forged a road like you you built a path That did not exist before That despite all of your difficulties and all of the challenges that you faced including depression including parents who were not supportive back then in spite of all of those things You managed to get to where you are And it blows my mind that you can't see it that way, but of course you can't see it that way And the question is like well, why not? And then it kind of comes back to i'm gonna just keep going normally I would stop because you're crying But i'm just gonna plow forward. Is that okay? Lily? Okay um Man, maybe I should ask you how you feel but i'm just gonna keep going. Okay, so I think this is a cathartic cry That's what i'm gonna guess Yeah, it's okay. Okay, so i'm gonna keep going So so then the question like for a second there I was about to say blows my mind why you can't see that but then of course like you've actually already answered that and it comes back to something that we talked about at the beginning of the interview is when you believe something about yourself like if I believe that my Hair is messed up And someone is walking down the street like i'm going to perceive that that person is looking at my hair Even though that is like completely insane I'm like, okay And this is lily too lily too is the person who keeps you from seeing that you were absolutely amazing and deserving of love and respect And that you've like forged a path for yourself where despite being and this is going to be bizarre less talented and less attractive Thousands of people watch you every time you stream So rather than being undeserving if we're really being if we're really being scientific we have to conclude that you have something else Right, like if you think about your favorite restaurants and the ones that have no no tablecloths and crappy service And look like shit And if people keep coming back over and over and over why is that lily? Consistency Consistency of what the service sucks it looks bad Do you like something about it? What do they like about the restaurant? Could be anything What do you okay? So like maybe this is a harder question than i'm thinking it is but So when I think about a restaurant I think about Like, you know food service ambiance wait times cleanliness Yeah, and at the end of the day I sometimes go to restaurants that have bad service Bad ambiance and are dirty Like a food truck But they like go for the cute waiter, you know, even if everything else is shit they could But why do they go back to that restaurant? The food I absolutely because at the end of the day what you put in your mouth and what you're looking for you get Right, like I said at the end of the day if people are coming back to a restaurant, it's for the fucking food And that you can make a good argument I'm sure you can convince yourself of this because your mom taught you from a very young age Just like my parents did that you can compare yourself to other people and then now I kind of joke about it that You know, i'm i'm every indian parent's dream and every indian kid's worst nightmare because i'm a hardwood trained physician Right, so you could you and you can convince yourself and compare yourself But at the end of the day, there's no doubt in my mind that the people are coming to watch you because of you And it's not about talent. It's not about appearance that you have the secret sauce There's something just authentic and amazing about the person that you are that keeps people coming back because like I work with a lot of people who are sociopathic I work with a lot of executives And you can't keep up and act that long there's got to be something legit You just can't do it. Like you can fool the world for like a day a month even a year But you've been doing this for years And people keep coming back And you're not able to see that because you're not primed to see it And you're not primed to see it because of lilly too And when I hear about what your mom did like it sort of makes sense, right? Because what did your mom what was sort of like the tldr of? Your the way, you know your parents treated you in high school What did you learn from them? Disappointment absolutely Right disappointment why because what? Was it good enough? There we go Right that And we see that that's where lilly too is from and I don't I mean I I feel like we're bashing your parents I really don't they just did the best that they could you know, they didn't understand Yeah, yeah they did And you know, I had I almost failed out too so With you from playing too many video games not so much mmos more rts and diablo, but um You know, and I I think I don't I just don't know I mean it it makes me sad to see that You know, you've just you've started to think about yourself in a particular way Um in terms of and it's actually like there's a part of me that's sad But there's a part of me that's kind of happy and this is part of what's been confusing for me is I think you've actually made a lot of progress Because I I see lilly too But I think it's amazing that you are able to actually see that you do demonstrate value and that like you aren't Disappointed like your fear is that like when when I asked earlier like what does lilly too feel you said dread? And then I asked dread of what and like you didn't really give me an answer But I put money that it's a dread of disappointment Probably Yeah, so what was it like hearing me say that Clarity A bit more clarity A bit more clarity cathartic cry. Yeah, that was cathartic cry. That wasn't sad cry So let me and if you have questions and stuff we can we can get to that but um Let me just think for so let me just start by saying this this is the first thing is that The other thing that I think is actually really kind of cool and unfortunate is that I think sometimes You know we suffer and I think that I talk a lot about dharma, which means duty and responsibility And I think you are under valuing your contribution to the world Because you kind of you've been programmed to think about a contribution in a particular way and you sort of say like I talk Too much about depression. Maybe I should talk less about depression But I think what people are resonating with is that like a lot of people who are watching on twitch Feel like they're watching Feel disappointed in themselves and feel Like the world is disappointed in them Right Like there's a part of me that says that every gamer is a little bit broken like that True Right, and and I think that like that's something that when you show that part of yourself And what you've been through like they resonate with that And I think that's incredibly important for them because like here's the thing, you know when you were 15 We haven't talked about this, but I imagine you felt incredibly incredibly alone That you didn't understand what was going on in your life and like the people like No one understood you and you didn't understand why like you tried to be a different person You tried so hard to be a different person and you just could not figure out how to do it and you were just Busted old you And like there's something really powerful about people who are feeling that way Being able to watch you struggle and say like oh wow, like she's busted lily and i'm busted me And she manages to do it so I shouldn't give up And I think if we're talking about like contributions to the world like that's fucking amazing, man So don't stop what you're doing and they deserve like you deserve every ounce of it Not only do you deserve it, but they need you lily. It's not even about you. It's about like what you're doing for them You make it sound very cool And there it is again, right there's the part of you that hesitates to believe Believe I just like 60 percent believe yeah, so that's progress that's that's what makes my life hard because I think you've actually done a lot of um You know, you've done a lot of good work in terms of understanding your 60 percent there And for that last 40 percent, this is kind of what i'll leave you with is that you know That person needs your compassion So that's like 15 year old lily who just got yelled at and told that you know by her mom that I wish you were never born And she needs you she needs the strong version of you. She needs the person that you've actually become The person who's successful who can look back on her life and say like Because this is something that I think you can do and I imagine you do You know that like even if you're lost and you feel hopeless like and you went to community college like you can find You can find a life where you can be You know like you can have joy and happiness and travel the world and like there's a road for you like life isn't over And so 15 year old lily needs how old are you now? 28 Needs 28 year old like you need to be your own older sister And there's the 40 percent of you is still skeptical that's fine I mean 60 rounds 600 so sure Okay Thoughts questions Um No, like my brain is just blank right now, sorry good. Yeah, that's okay. That's what we're shooting for so So You don't need to jump started I would just I would just sit sit with where you are for a minute Close your eyes And just feel no looking no peeking okay Okay, good So do you um, do you have any questions? Um I'm like thinking of a bunch of things right now. I'm trying to think of what to say I also wanted to mention um Like my parents are definitely a big part of why I fear disappointment I also Can we talk about hate for a second sure Yeah, I got a lot of hate 30 years a lot There are so many moments Where I wanted to quit because of that because people who don't know me make assumptions about me or Docs me or send me letters to my home Call me uh Nonstop hate And I think it's gotten better dealing with it because you have to get better dealing with it when you do this kind of stuff, right? When you have like such a big audience. Yeah but there's still some days where I read like one thing And it's like a spiral Yeah, I guess it's hard to And that's also I think Why I fear Giving myself value Because sometimes I'm scared if I see myself in a better light or like a A valuable light That just means Like it gives them more ammo, I guess Does that make sense? How does it give them more ammo? I've been told that If they can't shit on me if I shit on me You know what I mean like you can't insult me if I insult myself yeah Okay, yeah, so that's very powerful and potent Um That's are you thinking yeah I Deprecation yes, I do that a lot How long do you want to talk about this lily like do you want to really dive into it or do you want to Do you have somewhere to go? Do you have to go somewhere? Am I well? I need to go my car in about 25 minutes. So i'm just trying to understand So like if you want to have a conversation which I think is very productive I first of all just need to take a little bit of a break because This wears me out a little bit and before we dive into it. No, no, no, that's it's fine It's just i'm i'm just trying to think a little bit about you know If you want a simple answer I can give you that in five to ten minutes But if you really want to dive into hate, I think that's fine I'm just gonna like drink some water and move And maybe use the bathroom and then we can come back refreshed and dive in how does like you tell Me what do you want you need to do? Um, yeah, okay dive. Okay, so I just need a minute um, yeah, of course So i'll be back in like Five minutes. Okay Okay. Okay. So you guys talk to lily. Okay. Oh god a minute. Okay All right, hello welcome back thank you um Okay, so hatred Let's dive in okay. Yeah, so tell me so you're saying that people send you Hate stuff. Yeah. Oh wait Oh, yeah Um And you were saying something this is brilliant so you were saying that if you You know if you don't build yourself up they can't tear you down yes Right so Um I'm noticing an instinct to try to protect you from some things but um Okay, so we'll we'll we'll get to that. Are you are you up for a little bit more emotion or you feel like you're spent? No, I love emotions. I love feeling. Okay. Okay. So we'll see what happens but okay, so um Um All right, so tell me you know, how does it So tell me about why? you know, why bring this up with me now like what's What's the motivation? I felt like um The reason why I don't value myself not only Comes from you know my upbringing my parents but also this too and I felt like it wasn't You know genuine if I didn't bring it up as well like it felt like Uh, like I should I guess I don't know if I should have but maybe So the first thing is that this may not actually come from your parents. So I think you're coming from your parents is an easy Thing but the number of streamers who i've talked not just streamers but people who I talk to who sort of say like You know, I see how what you said sort of relates but I didn't mention This thing because I didn't feel comfortable talking about it on stream and oftentimes it comes from somewhere else Um, so I felt that I didn't feel comfortable. I just didn't want to bring it up Yeah, yeah, yeah No, no I'm just saying that a lot of people will sort of I think it's actually great that you're you're choosing to bring it up because A lot of people will like message me privately afterward and say like I didn't mention this Okay, so so I think it's actually great that you did. So how do you think so it's it it what i'm getting from you is that? instinctually Hatred seems to be a part of this equation Like that this discussion is not complete without talking about sort of hatred and how people Are venomous towards you because it did affect me pretty a lot It did yeah And can you tell me like so what are we talking about? Are we talking about like post streaming career or like prior to streaming? um post Okay, uh during I guess during yeah um so tell me a little bit about what what you mean by hatred and what happens and what you experience like What you receive and how you feel? Um, okay. So first my voice got a lot of hate for that um a lot of hate for that yeah, no people Really did not like it like Just a lot of hate over it. Yeah But it died down for sure But it was really bad back then pardon me because i'm just Sure, you know, they just be completely ignorant. But what on earth? Does your voice have to do with hate? Like I don't even understand oh Oh, they thought I was like faking it I see like they they think i'm faking it. They thought it they still think I don't know Okay Yeah, that's that's the crux of it really like they think i'm thinking why does why do they hate that like Why would anyone think you're hating your voice? I'm just so confused Oh, okay So they think i'm faking my voice So they think i'm faking it for attention and then that gives way to like oh she's just doing everything for attention She's fake or whatever. Does that make sense? Okay. Got it. Yeah um Yeah Yeah, so what do you think about that? for Well nowadays, I really don't care anymore good like this There's only so many years you can get that and like, you know, fuck it and this is my voice Like i'm just going to talk in whatever's comfortable for me. Like i'm just that's it right. What else can I do? Yeah, um, so how does it make you how did it make you feel when they when they would You know hate on you and how does someone hate on you for their voice? What do they actually say they say you're faking your voice for attention is that what like I don't even understand how that I don't what the hate mail even looks like Hey, you're not talking in your real voice. Well, i'm not talking in my real voice too, but that's that's okay You don't have to do it like that. You can do whatever kind of voice you want to do You do this voice we can do this one We can do a little bit of a german accent. We can do all kinds of the different accents There are all all kinds of voices that are all fake everything is false Without meaning When you use word like that. Yeah, it makes no sense. Huh? But that was just one part of it. I guess other yeah, so just like go ahead. Sorry. Oh, no Oh, okay, the other part of it is I think I don't know why there there are people who just really didn't like me like they would send me messages where Uh, they were trying to like psychoanalyze me like this is why you do this Like you only do it for attention. You're fake nothing about your you don't deserve success. I share like that They do they message me stuff like that Okay, and that's like, okay um that used to bother me a lot back then especially when I was um What was it I was dating um before albert, uh a public figure as well And people would message me saying how oh you're just dating them for attention You're a gold digger stuff like that and that really bothered me because uh I don't like being misunderstood. I guess because i'm not like that but they believe that so It I don't know Sucked Give me a sec Okay, sure I feel like i'm breaking him. Is he okay? Is he's fine, right? He's okay. I just I feel bad. Oh And then there was one time. Yeah, someone sent me like They sent me a letter to my house when I live with my parents I don't know how they got my address. Well, probably because of the dogs and creepy they Yeah, it was creepy. They sent me a seven page letter saying how like Uh, disparaging like everyone that I was hanging out with and that I wasn't good for them. It was just weird stuff Yeah, okay It was seven page. I wish I kept it now. It's part of history, but I threw it away. I pretty sure I burned it or something It was good for you Okay Oh and then there are people who message me like after the whole albert thing happened like Uh how I deserve to be cheated on and like stuff like that and I know this is this sounds like a stupid question even to me But like how does that make you feel when people feel like shit? Because I was already like in my own head and like what do you believe that when they say it? Um In my lowest of times Maybe like at my low point, right? Good for you. So so I see this is interesting I see this is interesting. So I think this is different because you would think Because they're saying the very things that you actually like lily to actually believes But you tell me that at your lowest of low maybe So I think that something Something within you rebels against that and actually doesn't believe that I don't want to believe in that, of course You don't want to believe it. I'm not asking what you want. I'm asking what you do Do you actually believe them when they say these things about you? Again just at my low points, you know Yeah, I I think it's good that you don't believe them that doesn't mean that it isn't hurtful But I don't think that this is the same as you feeling like do they make you feel inadequate? I think it's more like they're triggers for like more thoughts like bill mentioned like oh You did this so he cheated on you then i'm like, I know I didn't but then like I think like I did do I was like like oh clean. Yeah, I guess I was like that like I guess something like that like Okay, so they they kind of cause you to doubt some but it's not like you you feel like these people are or you hit the nail On the head. No, no, no, I I don't think so Okay Okay, okay Okay, there are three or four things I want to say one of them I think could be hard for you to hear Um, and the other three I think are gonna be fine So the first is we can talk a little bit about understanding like why people hate Right. So this is not even about you. It's just like What on earth would possess someone to go through all of the effort? Of finding out your address and then writing you a seven page late letter and like mailing it like so first of all It boggles my mind that someone would like I can't even It takes every ounce of my willpower to like put a like find a stamp buy an envelope Print something out and mail it even if it's like important like my mortgage Like my mortgage Not only that but they did it in different colors like paper and pen color. I remember so it was so It it's crazy. Like what on earth? Why do people expend so much energy? in hating you So the first thing to understand is that that has nothing to do with you like lily I know I was talking about how you were amazing and inspirational And you can transform lives and all that good stuff I don't think you have it within you to inspire someone to mail something that comes from them. It doesn't come from you Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes perfect sense So that's the first thing to understand is that this actually has nothing to do with you And there's a decent chance that you know We have to be a little bit careful about like being narcissistic and saying like oh my haters like It's just all on them and has nothing to do with me So I think you should you know reflect like if someone if you have a criticism like if someone is going to be like If someone criticizes you So some people criticize me and I think that's fair Um, you know to to take their criticism seriously And that sort of depends on the way and manner in which they do it, right? So if someone sends me a letter that's seven pages long out of like magazine type of different colors like I don't I mean i'm just less likely to take that seriously because that's just fucking weird Right, whereas sometimes people say like oh what you're doing is irresponsible and stuff like that No, those are like legitimate criticisms and and you know, so but I so there's a chance there's ego deflecting this and saying Oh, it's all in there, but I really think it's all on them. I don't think it's ego I think it's just understanding that hatred comes from them like first of all, they don't even know you they're like seeing something And something grates with them about the person that you have become They have to tear you down because if you exist If you exist that is something that they cannot like tolerate within their own psyche And i've dealt with people like this in in my own life where like You know like this is kind of like important like that like In a way they have constructed a shell for themselves and the shell Involves like certain things being true like for example So I think part of the reason that you may get a lot of hate is because you talk about depression And and when someone says like i'm just gonna you know I have no idea who these people are and and some people were saying I should talk to them I'm happy to talk to them actually Um, but i'm just gonna toss something out there. Okay, this is So like you talk about depression and you struggle with depression And there are other people out there who struggle with depression And there are people who struggle so much with depression that they become disabled and they're not able to do anything with their lives And then they blame their depression But there's also a bizarre amount of security in that depression Because it absolves you of responsibility And here comes fucking lily pichu who also struggles and Got told by her mom like got like, you know Really emotionally abused by her mom and told her that she wouldn't rather be born and and that's what my parents told me And here she is being successful And that terrifies them Because if you can be successful then It's not the depression's fault. It's their fault So nothing inspires hate as much as seeing the person that you could be That inspires the deepest hate that i've ever seen Because they look at you and they say like oh I could be like that but i'm not So I have to tear her down because if you're fake Then they're fine. Does that make sense? It does make a lot of sense. Yes So that's where I think a lot of this hate comes from it comes from them And it comes from their own issues And they have to tear you down in order to make themselves feel better about like their own situation in life Oh like Heaven forbid lily actually is talented and brings value. She must have some trick Right, it must be like she must be faking her voice because And like I can't make that voice and that's why i'm not successful Like there's no way that they can like their mind their ego it comes down to ego Their ego can tolerate like you being the person that you are because it assaults their worldview in some way Questions about that Um So, you know, I don't know that this necessarily helps but I I think you know going forward I would just try to Remember that right? So like when you're gonna read those words and and you're this is gonna come to point number two which is that you are just full of love and we'll get to that in a second, but um, you know like you're gonna you're gonna um Those words are gonna have an impact on you but remember that like A lot of hate in this world doesn't I mean most hatred is not actually like I mean sometimes it's it's really deserving of the person Who did it but most of the time like hatred is like coming from them and like their own sense of like hurt or anger or fear or I mean that's you know when I get hatred like when I get a patient who's like You know, I get a lot of hate like I work in a lot of situations where you know, sometimes i'll involuntarily Hospitalize people and things like that or i'm working with people who are hospitalized against their will And and sometimes I work with people who are like psychotic like not in a colloquial sense, but in like a clinical sense And and so that you know, you can my overwhelming sense is that hate rarely has to do with you And it mostly has to do with them the other thing to remember is if we think about hate hate is like Really kind of a manifestation of anger right it's anger taken to extreme agree understand with me. Yeah, okay And so if we think about it, what makes us angry like where does angry come where does anger come from? So like lily over the last two months, sorry it's okay, you know if I say something that's insensitive because now i'm sort of treating you in a different way, but In the last two months, have you been angry? Um, yeah, i've been angry yeah, where does that anger come from hurt absolutely So this is the other thing to understand Is that the birthplace of anger is hurt? 99% of the time. I don't know maybe 90% of time maybe 50% of the time for the intensive purposes of this discussion It comes from hurt and that's been my experience That hurt is what leads to anger What leads to anger And I remember like reading like a school shooter's manifesto and just thinking like the origin of this is hurt Right and and it's like i'm not You know, I don't know exactly where i'm going with this, but this is important to understand and so it's kind of sad But that like those people like even though they're hating you and you suffer for that and that's not cool and we'll get to that But at the end of the day like this this is all born of like they're hurt and like they because like if you think about it You know if you're successful and you're a reject and you went to community college and you have depression They don't have a fucking excuse Because those are their excuses those that's what they live behind right? Like that's that's the armor of their life It's like they can look at me and it's like way harder to hate me because they look at me and they say oh dr K is different. He's smarter. He works hard. He has willpower went to harvard. They don't see us as being the same But the people who hate me are the ones that see themselves within me Like they look at me and they see a part of themselves and that can be terrifying to deal with And that thought hurts so damn much Because if you have excuses for life then it's okay But like the thought that you actually are in control that if you had worked harder Or hadn't given up or expended more effort your life could be somewhere where it isn't That is immensely hurtful Most devastating thing And then it leads to anger and it leads to hatred and since they are depressed and disabled and may not may have failed out Of community college. They have a bunch of time on their hands And this is I feel protective of you so i'm being an asshole to them which is not really good but They have nothing better to do than to write seven page letters and mail them to you Right, so I think the main thing that we need to understand is like members of this community who receive hurt Is that I mean I think we as best as we're able I'm not saying you should do this But as best as we're able to try to remember that this actually is coming from hurt that most anger comes from hurt and that if someone is like Hates you that if there's some way in which you can help that person, I think you should I think that's more my ballpark than your ballpark. So i'm not trying to suggest that you should do that But that's a big part of why I stream So I don't want to project that on you but um questions about that No, that makes sense Okay. So second thing about hatred is that uh, Lily you're incredibly empathic Right Like I think you's and you're just your heart is just full of love and it's an amazing beautiful thing And also sometimes sucks for you because I think so much Yeah, especially all right like streaming Being a public figure and caring so much about everything is so hard Yeah, and I wish I didn't care so much. Yep. I really do so you're an empathic sponge And your heart is just full of love and caring and you have to be careful So I think part of the reason that like the hatred bothers you is not because and this is why I was like early on I started asking like do you believe that about yourself? I don't think this I don't think the hatred actually has anything to do with your lack of worth Like your lack of sense of self-worth I think it evokes something completely different and the reason that you suffer for it is because you are just so your heart is just So full of love and you are so empathic that somehow subconsciously Psychosocially spiritually, I don't even know what this is. We're getting into territory that I really do not understand and i'm just observing You were able to connect with that person and you feel Not only their hatred but the hurt underneath And I think it's hard on you And I think that's because you love and because you care and because your heart is open That like things affect you in a in like a bigger way so like You know, it's not your fault. It's not I mean generally speaking. I kind of think of it as good But even then it's not good or bad It's just you need to understand that your being whether it's your you know, whether you believe in souls or whatnot That's fine, whether it's personality or neuroscience like your empathic circuitry your eq Something about the way that like your brain is wired You feel the feelings of others in a very deep and intense way and also the intensity of your own feelings Is like greater So I would guess that you test very very low on like the sociopathy scale Because your empathy is actually very high so like you're not, you know I think it would be hard for you to take advantage of other people and things like that Because yeah And and so that's just the way you are. So you need to be careful about the way in which you care for yourself Um, because you need to understand that like other people like you can't judge What you should do to take care of yourself based on what you see other people do And um Yeah, so especially so So So I was confused about like what? What offline tv is because my mods were like you should raid this person They're part of the offline tv crew and like I didn't understand literally what those words meant Like I don't understand what part of the offline tv crew is like do you guys understand how that sentence? Doesn't like I don't even I I just don't like my head does not know how to compute that So I was really confused and I try not to prepare for interviews, which I think is good But then I googled offline tv and I saw what offline tv was and then I I watched some offline tvs content And so i'm going to be very explicit with you I I think you've got to be careful because you're different from some of your colleagues Some of your colleagues are different in terms of their degree of empathy and also their degree of sociopathy So like their ability to withstand things and also to put themselves like to to separate out the their feelings from their actions Is like very different from yours and you need to take care of yourself in a different kind of way like you need So you need to think about yourself as a sponge And you absorb negativity very easily you hold on to negativity very easily You also absorb positivity very easily and you also let go of positivity very easily So you need to have a life where like you're you know How to ring out the sponge if it's negative and then stick it into something that you like But you gotta ring it out and the reason you can't sleep is because you're not ringing it out You Gotta ring it out and then put yourself into something good. This isn't distractions just like this is just how your being works So i'm different. I test very highly on the sociopathy scale My sense of inherent empathy is very like was low And and so like I'm different from you. So the things that work for me are not going to work for you I don't know exactly what that means and I I think we're gonna maybe have a More concrete conversation about how you can take care of yourself better Because I think you do need to take care of yourself better and by better I mean probably differently because you're trying to take care of yourself in the way that normal people take care of themselves But you're not a normal person. You're just way too full of love And so you've got to take care of like, I don't know what the ringing out is going to be But it may be a particular meditation exercise I have one in mind Which also is for insomnia But it's also just acknowledging that like you need to think about yourself as like a white cloth and a white cloth Stains way faster But a white cloth you can also bleach so you're going to have to be a little bit more rigorous about understanding What are the things that make you feel? How do you let go of negative emotions? And then how do you soak up positive emotions? And the more that you're able to think about yourself in that way and like actively do that instead of just hope it happens The better off you're going to feel on a day-to-day basis You're like a real life like healer you're like a healer from an mmo so Yeah Not that cool, but okay. Okay. Fine. Maybe not maybe bad enough questions about being an empathic sponge Um, it makes sense. Okay. I care about things way too much Yeah, so so it and that's not that's not a bad thing, right? So we don't want you to change We just want you to at least in my mind. I don't think you should change. I don't think that's right I think what you should do is learn how to be yourself And learn how you work so that you can be like happy day to day And like understand what your body what your physical emotional and spiritual needs are And that those may be different from other people's Okay, I mean everyone's are different from other people's because we're all unique Um, so we can think a little bit about that. I think that's a potentially a longer conversation um So the last thing is like, you know Related to this is that you're just gonna have to sort of deal with that hate because when they send you the hate like you absorb it Yeah, and and it doesn't feed your negative cognitive biases about yourself and that you're worthless It's just I think you just absorb it. You're like You know and and that's tough So once again, it comes to figuring out like how do you wring out that sponge? How can you sort of sit with those feelings and don't try to push them away? Don't try to cope with them I mean cope with them, but like, you know if you need to but but don't try to distract yourself Just feel those feelings and then kind of think through okay Like just recognize that wow this person like has a lot of anger and hatred and they're directing it towards me So i'm gonna feel it but then as best as you can let it wash through you Okay And figure out what are the things that help emotions wash through you? so Yeah, I I guess figuring that out is the hardest part. Yeah Like that's tough Yeah um that that's why i'm saying I think i'm i'm doing you in a sense of disservice because i'm I'm telling you to do something that I I don't think that most people are trained to learn how to do So i'm giving you a goal. I'm sort of saying like oh like, you know Come up with a grand unified theory of physics and you're like, I don't know how to do that. I'm like, yeah, I get that because You know, so that's why i'm saying a direction Yeah, so I I think so, I mean we can talk very concretely in a few minutes about like what the first phase of that is um Yeah, so just just to remember that that hate is going to come on to you But that you can let that go like that's possible. You just need to process it And and also, you know try as best as you can try to remember and like hopefully this will help that like the hate's not coming I mean, it's not really about you. It's about them Like what the fuck like why why do they go through all this effort to try to hurt you in some way? And now we come to the thing questions thoughts Okay Yeah Can I go to the bathroom? Yes Sorry, nope, go for it Okay Should I be talking right now i'm confused maybe I should talk I'll just say I shall interact with stream for a few moments So Yeah, so psychiatrists test tend to test highly on the sociopathy scale it's part of what makes us good at our job What are you drinking i'm drinking water Um Tell people who I am Oh, oh right. So there are a lot of new people here. I feel I sometimes freak. Okay, so my name is alok. I'm a psychiatrist Thank you chat I need you guys. I really need you guys. Okay. So my name is alok. I'm a psychiatrist. I'm practicing in boston, massachusetts In my day job, i'm an addiction psychiatrist, I guess very briefly just about my backstory So I played a ton of video games was addicted to video games in in growing up high school Almost failed out of college had less than a 2.0 gpa Was on academic probation ended up going to india to find myself, etc Loved it because I I sort of discovered yoga and meditation and i've decided to become a monk Sort of trained in yoga and meditation. I was still like coming back and forth from between the us and india Um with the goal of becoming a monk so did that training for about seven years and then ended up becoming Um going to medical school And became a psychiatrist and did neuroscience research for a while and um, so now I try to help people understand themselves Um a couple years ago i'm doing a quick intro really because people were saying i'm trying to introduce myself um and uh so a couple years ago started like asking some of my um Um Like professors and stuff about video game addiction and realized like no one really knows anything about video game addiction because The leaders in the field of psychiatry are in their 50s 60s or 70s Which is true of most of medicine like if you think about an expert in the field like if you think about you know people who get named to like fed chair and and things like that people who are ceos and and Things like people are older and so they've never played video games. They don't understand what gaming is like So I started working with gamers about five years ago um, and then recently started streaming on twitch because like you know gamers are not going to wind up in my office, so if I want to talk to people about Their mind and mental health and how to understand it that twitch is the right thing to do and that seems to have worked out So far because people seem to enjoy this kind of thing. So I enjoy it too And so that's who I am Yeah So um last thing Yeah, okay. So the self-deprecation this is important to understand Okay, i'm gonna i'm kind of spent so i'm gonna just do this quickly and maybe So if you need to go, no, no, I i'm just i'm just I guess I don't mean to make you feel bad. I just can't walk you to this in the way that I normally do Okay, and so sometimes I also find i'm afraid that this could sound hurtful or callous because usually I preface things pretty well Okay, so I think it's very good. Lily that you understand that the self you sort of self-deprecate your I mean, I think sometimes you know self-deprecation is really not Has nothing to do with the way you feel about yourself. It's just like The way that you're funny like it's your mode of humor But I think there is something very true that you said about you know If you unless if you put yourself down then others can't hurt you Yeah, right. So you can you can protect yourself from hurt? As long as you're the one who's like making fun of yourself like because then you're in control And and that sort of works. It's a survival mechanism. I'd be really curious if you were like bullied growing up Because that's something that people learn how to do to protect themselves from bullies And it's dangerous because You are willing to treat yourself badly Because there's certainty and security in that like that's something you can deal with it's territory that you know You're willing to beat up on yourself or not let yourself feel hopeful or successful because If you aren't successful lily you can't be disappointing to anyone true Right So your fear when we talk to lily too. Remember, what does lily to feel? What's her primary feeling? What's the word you used? disappointment Uh dread of disappointment Right. So you have you have like this perfect armor Against everything that lily to dreads And that perfect armor is that you don't become successful because if you're never successful You can't be disappointed. And if you can't be disappointed then lily too has nothing to worry about because her fears will never come to pass And that is very protective and it is I think a bad way to live life And now we're going to come to albert because you've engaged in a lot of bad things Because you've engaged in a relationship where you loved and you gave your entire heart and you got devastated And now you're hesitant to love again, and it's the same thing Because unless you let yourself become successful, you can't be disappointed And there's a lot of security Security and comfort in not letting yourself love again Yeah And I think it's the wrong move It doesn't mean you have to do it now But that's just that's a value judgment that i'm placing i'm not saying that you should do that It's just I have a bias and I have a belief That living a life of security and comfort Is not how you live a fulfilling life That a life of fulfillment comes out of facing Uncertainty and embracing uncertainty and taking a chance And part of what devastates all of these people about you lily is that like you were doing the thing that they did not do Which is that you took a chance and you faced up to like all of your demons and you started streaming and you did it inconsistently And you self-deprecate yourself, but you you walked the very uncertain road, which is why I think you're amazing Because you walk that road and you did it and it terrifies them Because they look at you and they see the person that they could be And so at some point I hope you're willing to walk that road of uncertainty again when it comes to engaging in in relationship You know because I think that there is a lot of joy and fulfillment in that but it's dangerous and the prospect yes very scary And so not saying it has to be anytime soon But when I kind of think about someone Who is as full of empathy and love as I am I think about someone Who is as full of empathy and love as you are and who clearly resonates with people and helps them in a profound way And I think about you sort of living like at the age of 60 if you're kind of alone and have never you know been That's kind of sad like that thought makes me sad and I think you deserve more And i'm not saying that you know albert's a good guy or bad guy or anything I'm just saying like you as a human being I think people deserve to be loved and cherished and appreciated um Uh, I hope For that maybe one day Not now still a bitterly Yeah still like Commitment's my scary word. Yeah, that's fine. I think that's healthy reasonable Yeah Okay, other thoughts questions This was a really nice conversation I enjoyed it a lot too. I really liked it. Thank you. You're very welcome Yeah, do people have questions for you? Are we doing questions? I don't know Hold on. Do you want to are you spent? Hold on. I'm good There's nothing to do Okay, let me just um, because we have some questions for you Okay, oh and also we need to teach you I need to we need to do meditation Okay, let's do meditation first and if people have questions for lily Then um y'all can ask them Um, so i'm going to teach you a really simple meditation technique, which I think will uh, hopefully will help unclear um But it's a meditation technique that I usually teach for people who have trouble sleeping. Do you meditate by the way? Do you meditate by the way? No, okay Okay, that's great. We'll we'll start fixing that problem today so So what I want you to it we were talking about you kind of being an emotional sponge. So When you wake up in the morning lily when you're not in a period of depression, how do you usually feel? I wake up I lie in bed. I browse read it for like three hours not three hours. I'm those I browse read it. Um, just think what i'm at what I have to do today. Shit. I have to do that Oh god, damn it. I didn't do that yesterday Um How do you feel when you first wake up? Really lazy like okay Kind of Eh, I want to go back to bed. Okay. Okay Yeah, that may be because you're not getting enough sleep, but okay so Um, you know, I I don't know if this is Actually true, but but generally speaking I think about the mind as being relatively fresh In the morning and then if we think about insomnia what happens is like over the course of the day Like it's easy to go to bed in the morning, right? It's easy to fall asleep in the morning, but it's hard to fall asleep at night. So something changes between morning and night And we have to understand what that is that prevents you from sleeping at night because it's definitely not there in the morning Yeah So I think a lot of people don't appreciate that as they go through the day is you have thoughts like you're having That creates a little bit of anxiety a little bit of tension like oh, I didn't do that Creates regret and those negative emotions the more that you think like oh I didn't do this and I didn't do this like Even though you may feel like going back to sleep. How does that affect your ability to sleep? Um Not comfortable Absolutely, right? You shouldn't go back to sleep. So when you try to go to bed at night, what is it that keeps you awake? I don't know. I do you have thoughts I do I think a lot. Yep. I just think a lot about what Well, first I need to get off reddit That could take like hours there's so many separate it's out there it's crazy, um And then I just think like a lot of what ifs a lot Okay, do that a lot Okay Yeah Okay, so that's um, i'm thinking that maybe we need to teach you something else But i'm going to continue teaching what I was playing teaching, but that's just changed my Sense of what what could be helpful to you? But my sense is that you know when when we wake up in the morning It's relatively easy to go to sleep and as we go through the day We start to have thoughts and those thoughts have like little emotional impacts So we take like a little bit of emotional damage and usually that damage is there because the thought is not incomplete I mean the thought is incomplete. It's not like resolved. So we think about something and it's like something that's left unresolved And it's kind of this little emotional weight that needs to be settled So if you're thinking oh, I didn't do this yesterday Then that's like a little bit of regret and a little bit of guilt and you're not quite at peace with that Does that make sense? Yeah. In fact, the thoughts of like guilt and regret are a sign of lack of peace You with me like you're not at peace about it, which is why you regret it those are like tied So basically what happens is throughout the day we have little instances either thoughts or encounters with people where like oh I say this And like let's say like at the end of tonight if i'm laying in bed and I say oh I should have said this to lily. I forgot to say this I was less compassionate than I could have been or this or that And so there are all things that happen throughout the day that sort of give us this like it's like We're absorbing a little bit of that stuff in our emotional sponge And then as we accumulate all that crap throughout the day Then we go to bed and we just have this flood of like random thoughts about all kinds of stuff Half of which is not good Yeah, right. So that's like a like just incomplete mental energy that we've accumulated through the day because Our experiences are not complete or processed. They're all like half done Like I walked in the grocery store and there was this chick and she was checking me out I was like, oh, yeah Like like there's that thought or I was walking down the street and there was this chick and she was looking at my hair Because it was ridiculous. Oh my god, i'm mortified You know, that's there are all these incomplete little things that happen, right? so Yeah, go ahead. I'm assuming meditation is like trying to complete all of those sort of sort of This meditation is is way easier than completing them because completing them is a lot of work It's actually unwinding. So I want you to think about your mind in the morning is unwound And as you go through the day, you kind of wind it up like it gets wound, right? Like you get like tense and you get energy and then at the at night you have like insomnia So this technique is relatively simple It's just you start at the end of your day. So you start in the moment. So you're laying in bed And then you go through your day in reverse order So you start with the most recent thing and then you go to the thing before and then you go to the thing before and you Go to the thing before and you just think through The emotional impact or you acknowledge the emotional impact. You don't have to process anything You just think like you just acknowledge the emotions that you felt and how you felt the moment before in the moment before And the goal is to left leave yourself being unwound At the beginning of the morning when you were tired and sleepy And then if you get good at the technique, so this is important to remember is that like meditation is a skill So you have to practice this technique for a period of about eight weeks Five times a week for it to really have a significant change on your sleeping pattern That's what you should expect I see and and so i'll give you just kind of an example, right? So like I was before I got into bed I brushed my teeth before I brushed my teeth I um Changed my clothes and then I saw And as I was changing my clothes My wife yelled at me because instead of putting clothes in the hamper I put them on the floor I just leave clothes on the floor and I felt irritated with her And before that I was reading my kids a bedtime story and that felt actually really amazing Because they're very cuddly But then one of them was Like moving around too much and she wasn't sitting still so I felt frustrated with her I also felt like annoyed that my other kid couldn't hear a story because I was dealing with the wiggly one and before that I was eating dinner and I felt kind of frustrated because like I wanted to eat chicken wings, but instead we had pasta This is so cute It's very comfy. I'm sorry. I'm in traffic. Yeah, so so I mean Didn't feel that way to me but I mean, I I recognize there are parts of it that are wholesome But but so to basically go through your day in reverse order and so like acknowledge the things that you felt so let's practice now And as you feel comfortable Let's so close your eyes and and start in reverse order. So like tell me about what you did Today today. Yeah, so we're gonna start now what you did and how it made you feel Um start with this moment I talked to you Felt cathartic actually Helped me a lot Um Then I was looking for my glasses for about an hour For about an hour it made me very frustrated because I I still haven't found my glasses. I'm wearing someone else's glasses right now actually. Okay, so good. This is a mistake All right. I'm just going off on a tangent. I'm so yes, very good. So this is a problem. So don't indulge in new lines of thought Just acknowledge. I felt frustrated that I could not find my glasses and then move to the thing before good All right Frustrated could not find my glasses uh I drank a lot of water because I was sick Felt better. I had a cough drop because I was sick also felt better. Um, I put some makeup on because Yeah felt better. Um Washed my face uh changed Uh woke up. I guess that's that's that was my day Okay, so I want you to uh How long ago did you wake up? Um I woke up at around How many hours ago? Oh, wait, wait, sorry. I completely forgot one more thing um Before that I browsed right it for like an hour or two maybe Okay, so I woke up at like nine So now what we need to do is increase the resolution of like zoom in more, right? So like there are a lot of things so did you feel something before you came on stream? I did I felt very anxious actually Right. So so this technique doesn't work unless you catch that right because like the the feelings that you acknowledge are the things that you unwound But unless you acknowledge the anxiety that anxiety is going to sit with you Okay Yeah, right. So so so in the span of like, you know 30 to 60 seconds you went through your entire day We need to spend five minutes On like like so you want to go through each thing that happened? Okay Okay So so yeah, that's okay. That's the point of the technique is it's not supposed to be easy The point of the technique is so that it it trains you To acknowledge the various things that happen throughout the day so that you can unwind them a little bit and then they're weighing on you less Okay Yes, let me think um, so I think let's try this one more time and why don't you start with last night? So pretend that you're in bed last night And try to go i'll stop you after like two or three minutes Okay, but like put yourself in the frame of mind of like what did you do? Like you were in bed last night and start there Okay was in bed Then I washed up Then How did you feel when you washed up? relieved Yeah, relieved. I felt relieved when I washed up because I had a long day um I was uh, then the Some people dropped me off home before that we watched a movie And the movie was entertaining. It's funny. I enjoyed it. How was the car ride home? How did you uneventful it was just the car ride? Okay before that I was with my friend Michael we went to a premier event was exciting we streamed for hours and hours Um, it was fun. Then before that Car ride to the event uneventful again. Then before that Got makeup hair stylist done, which was also exciting. We streamed that as well um before that Uh ordered food ate wasn't very hungry, but still ate And then before that Browsed reddit probably washed up a little browsed reddit I guess Okay So great. So I think you're doing a far better job at sort of incorporating different things throughout your day But something tells me that the majority of your emotion yesterday, maybe this isn't right, but that the did you have trouble sleeping last night? I have trouble sleeping every night Okay, so i'm curious about the little The little anxieties fears dreads that you may have had throughout the day I did miss a lot. Actually, I had a big problem with the streaming backpack. It was super stressful. I Don't know why I didn't say it. Wow. Um, yeah, I was so Stressed about that because I didn't know if we could stream it. What does stress mean? um, I was like anxious and like it's nervous and I was Feeling like overwhelmed About the backpack, okay Yeah um At the event too. I was really tired Super physically exhausted super tired um Okay, good so so lily I think this is this is good so you need to practice the technique So what I would say is that you know as as you now that you're kind of You can even do sort of the flip side of the technique which is as you're going through your day Just take note of how you feel so that you can do the technique at night Yeah, the other thing that you're not allowed to do So it's great that you acknowledge these things now if you're really doing the technique like a hard ass you start over At the beginning and you include those with everything else. Okay, do I do that? Yeah, let's try it one more time and we'll be done. Okay So yesterday, yes From the moment I woke up or the moment you went to sleep Of course, it's really hard. Yes, like it's harder than the other. Okay. Yeah. I've okay so Washed up felt good because I had a long day um eyes closed Okay, um Eat some food Did not feel that good I wasn't hungry but I made myself eat because I didn't eat much that day Car ride home was uneventful relieved to go The event itself was fun, but tiring um Just really tiring but I kind of wanted to go home, too uh, then the car ride to the event was kind of stressful because We were trying to work out the stream. There was some problems with the screen. I remember it was super cold That was very cold. I didn't bring a jacket. It was a mistake And before that the hair makeup was fine But I was also still stressed because I wasn't sure if the stream was going to be good that day And I didn't know if the backpack was going to work Um before I started to stream before the makeup we were trying to fix the backpack for a long time I was stressed because I didn't know what to do and I felt bad because I was relying on Michael to fix it and I couldn't help then Ordered food That was okay. I wasn't that hungry, but just ate because I was nervous about that day um, oh I had an eyelash appointment that morning I forgot that was Kind of okay. I fell asleep during the most of it because you just lay there for two hours then I woke up Um, oh I auditioned for something that morning, too I was very tired So I was kind of nervous because I wasn't sure if my voice sounded good in the morning and I was sick too And then I woke up at eight So what do you notice about the first run and the second run? I forgot so many things. Wow. Yes So that's all crap That is swimming around and you're unconscious And it's just like Yeah Right. So living a life like where you're where you're mindful of like moments and things like it's very hard So it takes practice I think you're doing a fantastic job i'm amazed by how much progress you've made between like one run and So keep practicing. Yeah. Yeah closing your eyes does help very good um Okay, so let's see. I think I think that's let me see if people have questions for you Okay, so one question is how do I get healing like this if I cannot afford the expense of a therapist or psychiatrist So that's why we're training coaches so i'm like training a dozen coaches Who are going to be working hopefully with people? And our beta program is going to be free at some point though we're going to probably have to charge something because you know, they can't continue to volunteer their time, but Um, and it's going to be it's not it's not like it's not treatment. So it's going to be like cheap So maybe like 40 bucks an hour or something like that um so Okay Uh Okay, so someone says you had mentioned with kevin to not live in a world with hypotheticals I don't know who kevin is but after getting cheated on the first time I started living in a world of what if my next girlfriend cheats on me In my case my next girlfriend did how do you let go of the hypothetical if it was correct once? What do you think lily? Um How do you I don't even know Like I don't I wish I knew that now too Yeah, I still think What if my next boyfriend cheats on me or i'm scared of that still? Yeah, so I think it's a great question, right? So I think that's the challenge is that each time you get hurt You can fear engaging in the relationship again um And so that sort of makes sense like it can be hard every time Every time that you know you get hurt it can be hard to shake that thing again and again And and i've talked about something called a sum scar which is sort of like a ball of undigested emotion or trauma before And I think when I talk about lily too, for example I'm talking about in sun script lily too is something called a sum scar. So it's like this this sort of dormant set of emotions That rise up and change lily's thought patterns and behaviors and then they go dormant again and she's back to being normal lily So each time you get emotionally hurt and you don't process it the strength of the sum scar grows So if we look at lily we see that lily has this persistent sense of self-judgment and disappointment and falling short because That she didn't get told that she was disappointing once She got told she was disappointing again and again and again and again and each time she gets told she's disappointing That thing grows and what we see is like what we see today, right? Which is this persistent negative self-critical Kind of like it's like subtitles like you're living your normal life And these subtitle thoughts are just like popping up And you struggle because you're trying to like stop the subtitles and it's kind of okay because you're actually still living life But the subtitles are there. It's really fucking annoying So with the with the girlfriend, I think you've got to understand that each time it happens It's going to create some emotional weight And that you have to sort of learn how to like face uncertainty again And step out of your security and comfort zone Which is a little bit of an unsatisfying answer. The other thing that you've really got to be careful about Is that a lot of times people get into Similar relationship patterns and from psychiatry. This is something we call the repetition compulsion that people tend to essentially like try to Repeat the same they end up repeating the same thing over and over again because they're trying to like fix something And a good example of this is people who are in abusive relationships Oftentimes will get into abusive relationships again and they'll get into abusive relationship after abusive relationship after abusive relationship so the other thing that you can do and I know this is going to sound kind of weird but You can look at like how you select the people that you end up dating Because there's a chance that you you gravitate towards a certain kind of person who is more likely to be unfaithful And I know that sounds crazy and it sounds kind of like, you know, i'm not i'm not trying to blame you But at the same time we actually had a an interesting Early on when we started streaming We had a great conversation with someone who found out like he he gets into the same relationship patterns over and over again And a lot of people do experience that they get into the same relationship patterns like over and over again Like why do I always date assholes like oh like there may be a reason for that, you know um, so so I think one thing that you can do is just learn how to sort of emotionally process that hurt and then hopefully It'll be I mean, it's going to be harder, but each time it happens It's understandably harder to like have faith in another person and that's normal The second thing that you can do is really look at the ways in which you're you're kind of selecting people And is something going on in terms of the kind of person that you gravitate towards or things like that? Do you ignore signs that the relationship isn't going well? There are a lot of other things that you can practically do um Which I feel like is kind of a mean answer but It's kind of I mean, it's true, right? Like you were right once and you were right again, and that's bad. That sucks Okay um Can you do a day in the life video I guess that's for me or you I don't know what that is. I have no idea Maybe for you too What is that The day in the life is like a video where you just show you your the day in the life of me I wake up I do this I do that, you know make it Interesting maybe draw it out, you know anything Maybe it's for me. I don't know but you could do it too. Okay um Okay, so let's uh people have questions about a psychiatrist psychosis Is the experience for people with very high IQs similar As in are they mostly depressed and lonely no, so one thing that is similar is that the the u.s department of defense did a study on um their soldiers and found that soldiers who play video games have an iq that's 10 to 20 higher Than soldiers who don't play video games. So I do actually genuinely believe that gamers are like that Being very intelligent is actually a risk factor for video game addiction And there's a very simple reason for that it's not like super complicated So i'll tell you guys so I was early on and when I started working with gamers I was talking to a very particular a gamer and I asked him, you know When did you like really like video games and like how did you get into them? And the story they told me like blew my mind and it stuck with me ever since and they said that so I was in the second grade And I went to school and my teacher gave me a math worksheet And um, I knew how to do the math So I I did the worksheet and then 10 minutes later I went and I handed in the worksheet And then I said can I have the next one and lily? What do you think the teacher said? What did she say? What happens when you turn in your worksheet in class? What do you think? No Yeah, that's exactly what she says. She says this is the worksheet for the day. We're gonna do another one tomorrow, right? That's how school works. Like you have a lesson plan for the day And if you're a smart kid and you finish it early then you get to sit and wait and read quietly by yourself And then he would go home and he would play a video game And lily he would beat level one of the video game and then what happened next? What happens after you beat level one You go to level two. Absolutely Absolutely, right? So like a video game is something that paces its challenge To your capabilities and and and school moves at the rate of the slowest kid And so I think that like very early on like people like smart kids gravitate towards video games Because they actually get challenged in a game the way the way they can't in real life So I you know when I work like I was recently working with a kid and my solution to his video game addiction because he's a he's a big time Um, anyway, he's he's a successful player in a particular game Is to like hook him up with an internship at mit So I called a buddy of mine who is has a startup at mit And was like hey, can you like take this kid? He's 15 They're like we have 600 applicants for interns and I was like, yeah, but this kid's different. He's special and the kid goes to to Do the internship and now he's not playing many games anymore because he realizes Oh, there's actually like really cool challenging stuff in the world that I can engage in and And like when you do that, you know, that's how you kind of get free from your addiction But I do think that that generally speaking I see a lot of correlation between intelligence and video game addiction although I don't necessarily think that intelligence leads to being depressed and lonely because um You know, I would say that for example So I guess I didn't mention this in my bio But i'm faculty at harvard medical school and I trained there and a lot of people there are smart But I don't think that their average experience is to be depressed and lonely. I think gamers who are very intelligent oftentimes are depressed and lonely But that's because like games give them what real life can't and as they move away from real life and gravitate more towards games Then they become depressed and lonely um So I don't think it's just the iq it's like a combination of like the way that gaming influences your life Just trying to see Okay Uh, did you talk to her about dharma? I don't think so sort of So dharma is something I talk a lot about in stream and it's the sanskrit word for duty or responsibility I sort of talked to her about it because I told her so Um, but I didn't talk about it explicitly because I didn't think it was kind of just random I didn't think it was relevant, but you mentioned it. Yeah. Yeah, so so What I did talk about lily is like, why do you stream? Because I like it and it's a good job Yeah So you like it and it's a good job Yeah, and what is it? What do you like about streaming? Um, I think it's a very unique job that um I take the word lucky now, but i'm lucky to have and I don't want to waste it. I don't want to waste the opportunity Yeah, but what do you like about it? I like talking with my chat talking about I like drawing playing games Yeah, do you think that you're is there some part of you that feels like streaming is You're making the world a slightly better place 60 maybe it's hard. It's hard. It's hard to think that It is right. So I don't I don't think you're ready to accept that but I think earlier on you were there Yeah, and and so now her mental patterns have returned So like now she's back to but it's good that you can recognize it 60. I know but that's yeah, but that's dharma, right? So I think we talked about it, but we just didn't call it what it was I mean, I I think you're you're genuinely connecting with a lot of people and that's why they come back um Okay, so I think those are all the questions that sort of relate to you I mean, there are all kinds of questions about porn addiction and stuff, but I don't think they relate to you. Okay um but Yeah Anyway, thanks a lot lily. No. Thank you. This is really great. I'm really happy I got to talk to you Yeah, thank you so much I I really enjoy talking to you and and you know if if you want to talk more practically if you ever want to talk Again, just you know, let us know um, and then the second thing is you know at some point I feel like I should help you a little bit more in terms of guidance in terms of Helping you understand how to wring out your sponge and how to absorb good stuff That'd be nice um And like actually like, you know, give you something concrete that you can do But let's start with the meditation technique and you know, let me know how that works for you And there's a decent chance it's going to be very hard to do like because you just won't remember so we can problem solve around that too Okay All right. Take care. All right. Thank you. Oh actually, let me ask you real quick So do you guys do you guys like wait, but did you all understand you guys can do that meditation technique, too? Do you guys want a different one or are we good? That's meditation. What we told her to do. You should just do that Okay Lily can I teach you one more meditation technique? Oh, yeah. Sure. Sure. Yeah. Okay. So sorry for Almost hanging up on okay, but we're not done with you yet. So I want you to we're gonna do um Let me think do you guys want to do something easy or anxiety provoking Um Lily if you have to go I can just teach this to stream directly. No, I have Um, I want to be here Anxiety provoking. Okay, so we're gonna do ohm chanting then So i'm going to teach you how to chant Okay, and we're going to do ohm chanting. So ohm is composed of three syllables. Ah, ooh and um, and this is going to be weird Okay Okay, so we're going to chant so i'll demonstrate once Ah Ah Man it's hard to do after a couple of hours. No, it's fine anxiety spiking. Holy crap Yeah, right so This is the goal of the technique is that when all of you guys do it like the thought of doing it does what for you? It makes me embarrassed and like I don't want to do it on stream Yes, exactly. That's the point Right. So if we're going to teach you how to deal to to make your anxiety melt away. We have to make you anxious first Right, so it's it's gonna work well trust me trust me 2 46 pm. Oh my god, do you need to go? No, i'm joking. I'm just making a joke because I okay Okay, okay, so it's ah Okay, so yeah, but chanting is and you guys should do this at home too, okay Chanting is not about sound. It's about vibration. Okay, so close your eyes Deep breath in Um Okay, are you feeling vibration Yeah, i'm so nervous right now. Good. That's fine. That's that's completely fine. Don't worry about it. So we're gonna do it again Okay, so deep breath in i'm gonna listen to you do it on your own. Okay, so deep breath in eyes closed No more opening your eyes for the rest of the practice. Sorry. Okay. Okay deep breath in Begin Sorry, that's okay laugh embarrassment good good. Okay. Okay. I got it deep breath in Good keep going one breath Yep full breath go Okay Okay, good now do five breaths and five rounds Again Yeah. Yeah, can you hear me? I said do five breaths. So I want you to take five deep breaths. I'm gonna demonstrate I'm gonna do it with you. Okay, we're gonna do it together. So we're gonna do five breaths. So, uh Okay and focus on maximizing the sensation of vibration that you feel in your body Where do you feel it in your body when you chant? Okay, so maximize the sense of that vibration. Okay, I may cough because my throat is dry, but we're gonna do five breaths chat We're gonna do it too. Okay Okay Ah Do it with me lily, oh I have to do it with you. Yeah, we're gonna do it together. Okay, so deep breath in Um Again Ah Last one make it count Um Cool where's the anxiety? uh Where to go, I don't know it's left It does I feel yeah You feel what uh calmer Like just calm like that was but let's let's be clear right? That was fucking weird That was weird, but it I guess I find the third fourth time. I was like, oh, okay, this isn't that bad. Yes, just do it. Yeah, right. So longer breaths More vibration Okay, seven rounds on your own and twitch chat too Okay, but that's the whole point is we want to make you you are super super anxious We've been talking about all kinds of stuff how albert was unfaithful how feelings hatred Venom and you have not hesitated Comes to this I'm anxious And you just got through it Yeah, you just got through it Yeah That's amazing. Good job Thank you All right. Take care. All right. Thank you so much. You're most welcome Hi adios