 I'm cool to talk about whatever. Yeah, so what's it like to talk to evil people on the phone? I think that I have become somewhat... Would callous be the right word? I feel like... Depends. I've been doing it for three years. Huh? Yeah. I've been doing it for three years. Okay. There were times where a scammer would say, I play a grandma character, or I do older characters. I try to be like a grandfather. And they would say something like, if you don't go to the store and buy me a gift card, I will come to your house and shoot you. And the first few times I heard that, you don't know what to say. And there's this moment of, wow, how could another person say this to a human being? And then I think the more that I've done it, I just... Maybe I'm desensitized? I don't know. So what would you... So you said that there's a moment where you... And then you made a facial expression. Oh. And so what do you feel in that moment? I think for me, there's times where when I talk to them, I feel... I'm trying to... Searching for the right word. You can feel shocked and wonder, how could a human being say that to someone? How could a person get to the point where they feel it's okay to threaten an 87-year-old grandma for a gift card? I guess that's what goes through my mind. Yeah. So that's a little bit abstract, right? Because you're on the other end of the phone and they're telling you this, but I don't hear anything personal. You're asking, how could someone do... It's like you're watching the news. You're not participating. How could anyone do this to another human being? Which is a little bit strange. I would expect that if I was on the phone with someone and said, I'm going to come to your house and I'm going to kill you, even if I was pretending, I would imagine that I felt some kind of personal reaction. Yeah, remorse. Yeah. Yeah. And some of the... A few of the scammers I've talked to, I think they don't care at all. They're okay with... They want me to be afraid and they want me to cry and capitulate and listen to whatever it is they want. And I suppose that's the hardest part is where there are times that I know in order to keep wasting the scammers time, in order to keep doing what I do, I have to play a character who is scared and sad and will take the abuse. And sometimes that's really hard to... What's hard about it? Work through. Well, it's terrible. You have someone yelling at an old man and someone who is verbally abusing you and trying to manipulate someone to give them money. And you have to act like, this is okay. I'm just going to keep going along with it. And I think I'm fine with it because I know that I'm educating people about the scams, I'm wasting the guy's time. At the end of the day, I typically also... Something that we've been doing lately is I'll buy the Google Play card that they want. And my background is in software dev, so I coded a fake Google store and I redeemed the Google Play card and then they get really, really mad at me. So I know in the back of my mind that there's going to be some... How do you feel when they get mad at you? Yeah, admittedly, there is a little bit of like a... I don't know if justice is the right word because it's not really justice, but... What's in it? Don't ask me that question. I don't know. I don't know what it is, but there's something satisfying about saying, well, you thought that you could control the situation and manipulate an 87-year-old man, but actually we were controlling the situation for the past five hours and you just got scammed. It's like we flipped the table and kind of got back at the scammers in a small way, I guess. Can I ask you, so you were saying earlier that you become callous over time. Do you feel a whole lot of empathy? Like in general? Yeah. Or I think in general, I hate... I don't like making statements like this, but I feel as though I have empathy and I don't like saying that because I don't want to come across like, oh yeah, I'm great or I'm a really nice person or something. I do think that I think about people and a lot of the times when I talk to scammers, I think in the back of my mind, this is just another person who is going through who knows what and I don't know the story that they got them here. Yeah. So Kit, let me ask you. So those seem like thoughts, right? Okay. Right. What I'm curious about is when I ask you, do you feel empathy, your answer was sort of, I think I do, but I don't want to say yes because that seems arrogant or something. Yeah. I just don't want to sound like I'm saying, dude, I'm the nicest person on the internet. I'm the most humble person ever because that's obviously not... That's not the question I'm asking, right? I'm not asking if you're a nice guy. Are you concerned that maybe you come across as too nice or not nice enough? I don't know. Okay. Yes, I think that I'm empathetic. I think I will answer it more straightforwardly. Sure. You think you're empathetic. What makes you think you're empathetic? I get empathy and sympathy mixed up. Sure. So let me google it. So let's define. Great, great point, right? So, sympathy is feeling kind of bad for someone. Empathy is feeling what they feel. Okay. Yeah, I think that... So say that again, sympathy is more feeling bad. Sympathy is feeling bad, right? So I'm over here and you're over there and I feel bad for you and empathy is sort of, I feel bad with you, right? So empathy is the capacity for one human being to feel another's pain. So if I'm watching TV and someone gets hit in the nuts, I feel a visceral pain within myself. Does that make sense? Like putting yourself in someone's shoes. Yeah, exactly. So, for example, when I see... I would say that I am empathetic or have... Yeah, absolutely. Okay. So I'm going to toss out kind of an inflammatory hypothesis and I think that... And please give me a chance to explain myself. So as we become callous, I think we sort of lose our capacity for empathy, right? And you kind of like... I'm just noticing that in your job, or for lack of... In your stream, which I'm just going to call a job because I don't know what else to call it. So like in your work. Okay. Wait, are you saying that streaming is not a job? No, no. It's just I was implying that I don't know... Because you mentioned that you have a background in software development, so I don't know if this is your job or not. It is my job now. I'm just kidding. Awesome. So in your work, you've had to become callous. And as a result of callous, you sometimes feel less empathy, right? And you have a couple of abstract statements. And even when you talk about empathy, you use the word think a lot. Like it sounds like the manifestation of your empathy is something that I'd call cognitive empathy, which is it's sort of like an analysis of someone feeling bad, as opposed to feeling bad yourself and like, kind of like in essence, capturing what they feel. Interesting. And some of that actually relates to a term that is misunderstood, which is sociopathy. Right? So that's the inflammatory hypothesis. So I want to explain myself. Sounds bad. It does sound bad. So I test very highly on the sociopathic scale, just as a disclaimer. And what that means, it doesn't mean like sociopathy isn't bad in and of itself. So psychiatrists tend to test very highly. And part of testing highly on the scale is actually controlling or not feeling emotional, or like having a lot of control over the amount of emotional empathy you feel. So part of what makes psychiatrists good at their job is that they don't actually, when someone comes into my office and they feel super, super depressed, and I see people for like 10 hours a day who are all depressed, if I have a big valve in terms of like the faucet of empathy is open, I'm going to get destroyed. So psychiatrists train themselves to actually like acquire some degree of like walls between them and another person. When we think about the concept of sociopathy, I'm not calling you sociopath, because once again I'm saying I test highly on this. I think that when you talk about feeling callous, that in some way is similar to like how sociopaths feel. Right? Because if we think about a sociopath and you ask them, if we think about them, what kind of people are they? They're callous people. Interesting. I will say, just for the sake of conversation, I was specifically talking about just the scammers. Yep. Because like I have kids and there's time. The other day, my youngest was really excited about something that was on the table, and one of the older ones in a very evil way pushed the youngest away and I cried. Just because I was remembering my childhood and my little one's face was just devastated. It's like, why did this happen to me? And I cried because I was like, it was so many emotions, whatever. What kind of emotions did you have there? Oh gosh. I think this is a terrible thing to...not terrible, that's the wrong word, but I very much don't want my kids to get hurt. I don't want them to have to go up against...to me, what I saw in... What don't you want them to go up against? Yeah. So what I saw in the youngest of the Boga clan's eyes was just a complete unexpected... I don't want to use the word malevolent, but... Just use it. Yeah, a malevolent act. Why would my betrayal...yeah, why would my older sibling do this to me? I didn't like seeing that. I've been betrayed and it's terrible. And even though it was a small thing, it was just one little... What was a small thing? Well it was just...you could say it was just getting knocked over, right? Versus someone...it's not like your spouse cheats on you or something. But for my young kid, that was probably maybe the first time or one of the first times that they've been betrayed. And I...yeah, so all of those thoughts flooded into my mind. Sure. Anyway, all that was to say, I still think that I don't feel like I'm callous in most situations. Another way I could describe it is...and sorry, I talk a lot, so you can just stop me. When I first started streaming...but I still try to do this today, but sometimes at the end when I would talk to a scammer after I said, you know, gotcha, I wasn't an old man after all, I'm just a normal guy wasting your time. I would ask them, why are you doing this? Do your parents know that you're doing this? I would try to have a heart to heart conversation. Beautiful. And I really wanted to somehow reach in to their life. And even if it was a 1% chance that they might think about it at night, and it would get them to change, I would do that almost every time. And it made some people really upset because they wanted me to just yell at the scammers and say like, F you, you know, you suck. But I really wanted to do it because I felt like there's mistakes I've made that people reached in and said, hey, you made a bad choice, but you can be better. Like, why can't I do that to a scammer? Why can't we do that for people that felt right? But over time, it's becoming harder and harder for me to do that. Maybe that's another way to say I'm callous or like, it's harder to still have that same hope of like, this guy can change or this girl can change because I've been doing it for three years and you run across so many characters. How do they respond? Most of the time, there's probably three different responses. One is this arrogant, like, scamming is awesome. I make hundreds of million dollars of hundreds of millions of dollars a year and I have like 16. What do they call it? I don't know. They're sleeping with girls all the time and their life is perfect. They always bring up the money thing, like they make tons and tons of money, which I just think there's a lot of evidence to say that's not true. But of course, they want I think they want to feel special and they want to take away anything I'm saying and just say, I love my life. Things are great. So that's one, probably a majority of the scammers. Do they even engage with you on that level? Yeah, I would probably half of them would would and some of them would just hang up and say, we're not scammers. And they would just hang up, you know, the other half would respond to me. So I would say 50% just hang up. 25% would respond to me and say, I love my life. And then maybe 25% would get a little bit. You could tell that their voice changed a little bit and they would they would tell you something like, well, this is the only thing that I can do to feed my family or something like that. And then it was an even less percent of people that would just tell you, I'm a scammer. I don't make any money. But honestly, I'm not sure what else to do. And like get into a really, really actual real conversation. That's maybe like 2% or something. And you say that your viewers don't like that? Well, I think I think the community that I have now is fine when I do that. I think there's just a especially when I first started and it was so new, there were people there's a group of people that come in who I am. This is my perception of it. I talked a minute about how a minute ago about how there was a nice feeling, right, of revenge or something. Yeah. When when you get back at the scammers, whatever it is. And I think there's a lot of people who want to see that happen. And then when I start sympathizing or empathizing or whatever, and saying, hey, you're a person, you can do better than this. What do you tell your kid? What do you tell your kids? Do you want your kids to have to do this? Is this the world that you want to create for the people start thinking, wait a second, like kit, this guy doesn't deserve anything. He's a he's a filthy, filthy scammer who needs to, you know, what do you what do you take comments? What do you take away from that by humanizing the person you're talking to? What do I take away from chat or what? Yeah. I think to some for some people, I'm not saying the majority, I'm not saying the majority. I think there are some people that. Maybe it's harder for them to hate that person or harder for them to feel as though they. I don't know what the right word is. I haven't thought about this before. Because you give me something very important, right? What is that feeling? The revenge feeling or the? Yeah, I think that for some people. You know, their their family has been affected by scams. Sure. Maybe their grandma got scammed. And then here I am. Saying. This is just another person who could make better life choices and deserves a second chance. And I don't think. So you don't necessarily want to hear that. Your mom just got scammed. Yeah. And you know, oddly enough, can I be I mean, I don't have any data to support this, but I'd be surprised if most people who watch what you do resonate with you because they have been victims of some kind of scam. Because they have been victims of some kind of scamming or someone they know has been victimized. I think what you're talking about is a feeling of righteousness. Right. It's like justice. Like, yeah, there's people who. Let them pay for me to accept this. But there are people who've said that. Yeah, like they've called it justice porn. Yeah, absolutely. The term for it. And it puts me in kind of a weird situation or has put me in a weird situation at times because while. Yes, I. Think that it's important to waste their time and educate people about these scammers, and I don't ever want to say that it is acceptable for them to do what they're doing. I do genuinely believe that every person has value and that everyone should be treated that way. And sure, I think that if most people thought about it, they would say, well, yeah, that's like that's the way our justice system works. Right. If people if you get in trouble, you're still treated as though you have. Some sort of I mean, I could be wrong, but some sort of something that you might be able to bring to the world. So you have a defense against you and all these different things. Kit, a couple of things that if I can just jump in for a second, one is I want to explain a little bit more about what I meant and ask you a couple of questions about callousness and sociopathy, because I want to just clarify that I didn't mean to imply that I think you're a sociopath. That's fine. What I what I really meant to understand is I think that so this is a big problem with the idea of sociopathy is we kind of label people as sociopaths or not sociopaths. I don't think it's binary. Like I was. I'll be a little bit more transparent. So when I was talking about psychiatrists, I think that callousness and essentially sociopathy is is a function of the mind that can be grown and adaptive in certain circumstances. Right. And to a certain degree, like like all physicians have to learn how to deal with death and like deal with it in a very neutral way in order to do their job. And it doesn't surprise me at all, because I actually have the same experience that you have with your kids, which is years ago, I used to be very, very emotionally like level and not many things would upset me or bother me. I could watch like movies and stuff with gore and and all kinds of bad things happen to people and didn't bother me at all. In fact, I was probably even a little bit like titillated or the extremity, like watching an extreme emotion or extreme situation made me feel a little bit more because most of my experience of life was like just me being dead in the inside. Yeah. And but after having kids and also, I think after sort of starting to practice psychiatry, I found that I had more walls up for my emotions with people. And then there was some amount of like emotional buildup that would happen with people, which then would start pouring out in other situations. And especially like with my kids and stuff. So like I find myself getting teary eyed and stuff at all kinds of random times. And so I think it is I'm kind of curious about sort of talking a little bit more with you about being closed off and callous in one situation and being open and feeling in another situation. I'd also be a little bit curious. You said that you said something about being betrayed. When you saw one child, it's not so much that your kid was malevolent, although there was some malevolence in there. Right. So there was still pretty young. It's like, I don't know if they intentionally tried to. It's a very big difference. Sure. Absolutely. So but there was something about that picture that feels malevolent, even if it's not one of your kids being malevolent. Maybe the other kid doesn't have a perception of malevolence, but there's malevolence somewhere in there, right? Maybe between the lines. And so you said it reminded you of something that happened to you. I'm very curious about that. And part of the reason that I'm curious about that is I'm curious why you do what you do. I don't think I do what I do because of the probably biggest betrayal thing that comes to mind. So it would probably be two very different things, but I'm happy to talk about either or both. And then the last kind of thing that I want to talk to you about is, do you think your job is fun? Yeah. Yeah. For the most part. What's fun about it? I very much enjoy it. I like that every day is a different story or a different... I don't know what to expect every day. So novelty? Yeah. I think occasionally some people... And I totally understand this. For some people, once you've seen a couple of my streams and you've seen that there's probably five or six different main scams, let's say, and after you've seen, let's say, I'll say a dozen, whatever it is, you could go, all right, well, I kind of know what's going to happen now. I know. I have a general understanding of the way the scams work. I think some people are like, oh, he just does the same thing every day. But for me, it's always a different person I'm talking to on the phone. I try to play a different character. We do a lot of weird different things. I like that. I also really like making people laugh. I think that to some degree, there's been a sense of... I don't know if I want to say purpose, but it feels like I'm providing for my family. I'm doing something that I enjoy and believe in. I'm educating people. I'm able to help people laugh and learn about things. And I feel like it meets a lot of... That checks a lot of things off the list. I'm very grateful for that. Very grateful for that. I'm curious, do you feel like a predator? No. I don't think so. You mean talking to the scammers? Yeah, yeah. People have asked me before, do I feel like I'm taking advantage? Some people have said that I am taking advantage of them. I don't know that you're taking advantage of them. I don't think so. Do I feel like a predator? I don't know if anyone's asked me that particular question. Predator as in... It makes me think of a lion or something. I'm stalking them and trying to... I wasn't thinking so much lion. I was thinking spider. Okay. Like trying to trap them. Yeah. Chat says, confirmed sociopathic predator. No, I really don't think you're a sociopath. And this is what I mean by challenging. Is this okay that I'm asking you these things? Oh, I don't care. Yeah, this is interesting. I really like to think about stuff. Yeah, I don't think that I have ever thought of myself as a predator like I was doing something wrong. I did have some serious conversations with a friend of mine who's also just likes to think in the very beginning, so three years ago, let's say, is what I'm doing wrong, let's say. Like that was sort of the topic. Am I... So you would, if we're straightforward about it, I lie on the phone every day. Right. I talk to a scammer and I pretend to be an 87-year-old man or whatever it is. For five hours or whatever, I lie. And at first, there were times where I would think, oh gosh, I mean, a pretty big... I think it's fairly important to... Fairly important is wrong. I don't want to... I think it's very important not to lie. I think something that I teach my kids and that everyone generally would say to their children, you don't tell your kid, you know what a great thing to do, son or daughter, lie. That's great. So that was something that was hard for me for a while. Like, gosh, I'm lying every day. And the way I sort of justified it or the way that I thought through it with one of my friends was that one, I do typically tell them at the end. I do not always, but in the beginning, I always at the end told them that I was actually me and I sort of like stopped lying, you know, and explained the whole entire situation. And part of that was a mental thing for me to say, okay, well, I'm not lying anymore. Like, they know. But then I also, in talking to my friend, thought, well, maybe this is just... I think there's a word for it so you might know. Sort of like... I don't want to say for the greater good because I think that's like misquoted a lot. But that kind of... Why don't you want to use that? But maybe that's the best... Oh, I meant to say the ends justify the means. I think that's misquoted a lot. But for the greater good, you could kind of say, yeah, like, okay, so I lied to a scammer for a while so I could keep them on the phone and educate thousands of people about the scam. I feel like there's a... So I'm going to ask you something, okay? So what it sounds like... No, no, I'm just... I actually really appreciate that you talk a lot and you share a lot of thoughts. And honestly, it's really awesome. So let me ask you something. So right now what you're doing is essentially providing a lot of reasons why your behavior is good, right? Yeah, because you asked me, am I a predator? I asked you if you feel like a predator. Okay. So I was trying to say, yeah, I don't think I am and here's why. But maybe... Absolutely. So I didn't... Okay, so maybe to clarify, so I'll ask you again. Do you feel like a predator when you're doing this? Just so it's clear, I didn't think that you were calling me a predator. Sorry if I misspoke. We'll get there at some point. We'll get there in a jiffy. No, I don't think that I'm a predator. I don't feel like I'm a predator. When you're talking to a scammer, do you feel like you're hunting? I've been hunting before. So... Gosh. You know, maybe there's definitely times where... I don't know if I'm supposed to say that, but there's definitely times where it feels like I'm a few steps ahead of them. And I know exactly what they're going to do. And I'm laying my traps, if you will. There's days where it feels like... What was the term? I can play them like a fiddle. And it's like... I hate... Maybe this comes across really weird, but yeah, it's like I can do whatever I want. I can have them sing songs. I can have them... Yeah. You can really just... So you're a person... You're in control now. ...who can control other people. You can play them like a fiddle. Well, I've only experienced that with the scammers. Absolutely. Right? So, I mean, these are your words, right? There are moments where you can feel like you can play them like a fiddle. And we're talking about... Yeah, so I would say the concept is... Or at least as I've... Before you jump in, I want to ask you... What are you feeling when I say that? It's like kind of an inflammatory and almost like an attack kind of statement. I feel uncomfortable, yeah. What do you feel? Let's talk about that. I feel like I shouldn't be saying it because... I disagree, by the way. But let's talk about that for a second. Why do you feel uncomfortable? Maybe it feels wrong. It feels like a bad... Like, oh yeah, I can control people. It feels like a bad guy in a movie would be saying... Yeah. I can control people. So, you know, who else can control people? There's a lot of jokes that I want to say, but... Me. No, who? Right? So I can do that. So a lot of times on stream, I'm capable of bringing people in a particular way. And I choose to use my power for good instead of evil. But I'm... I can... I mean, so I have a skill to essentially shape the behavior and perceptions of other human beings. That's what a psychiatrist does. Yeah. And I think the more you... Especially the more you know how people think and the more that you experience it, I'm sure you can ask questions and lead people any which way. And I think I've experienced that with the scammers because I know, for the most part, let's say 90%, I know what they want. I know how the scam works. I know what's driving them. I've learned all of these things. And so you can use it, you could say, against them to waste their time and do whatever it is you want. And so I would say the same thing. I've used it in a way... I've used it for good rather than to... Absolutely. So let's be clear about this, okay? So I'm glad that you're saying that because I understand that you feel uncomfortable because I think what you're doing... So I'm just going to ask you, is it fun? And your answer is whether there's novelty, there's humor, there's purpose. I support my family. Those are all positive things, right? And so... But is it... So when I ask you, is it fun, your answer is involved like, yeah, it's something new every day. You know, I support my family. It's funny. There's like humor to it. And I think there's also like this undercurrent of like, I think why people watch is because they're watching a hunter. Right? Like, I think that just because you're trying... Like, I think it's very... I think your moral approach is doubly important because there's an underbelly to this that is not positive. So I think that you're a good person because you don't give in to those feelings of righteousness and you try to go the extra step and actually help people. But I think there's absolutely some amount of, you know, satisfaction from playing people like a fiddle because that's how human beings work. Right? The other thing, if we think about it, the more I'm asking you about this stuff, the more uncomfortable I make you feel, the more... I mean, apologies for doing this, but I'm kind of doing it on purpose. I'm sort of manipulating you even now. Right? Sure. So as the discomfort comes up, you say more and more positive things. Like you're like, you know, I'm trying to help people. And I think that's how you've dealt... You've reconciled your own internal conflict because I think there's a part of you that is like darkness on the inside. Right? Because we all have that. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I think there's been plenty of times where you think to yourself, like, gosh, am I... Like, is this... Well, not as much more, but when I first started, like, is this ethical? Like, am I doing something wrong here? Yeah. It seems like it's good, but I had to work through that quite a bit. Because I think there's... So that, what I think is really respectable about what you do and I think what makes you a good person is that struggle. Like, I want to kind of try to be transparent. Well, thanks, I guess. Yeah. So I think we have the perception that good people don't have bad pieces. Right? When I ask you, is this fun? You're like, yeah, I do it because I'm trying to help people. I'm trying to, like, educate people about scamming. This is good about what I do. This is good about what I do. This is good about what I do. This is good about what I do. This is good about what I do. Yeah. I think part of that is because there are things that are not fun. So I never, I think I was starting to say, well, here's the reasons why it... What isn't fun about it? Here's the times where I feel like it's fun, but there's other times where it's not fun. And I also think in general, yeah, there's probably some fun, whether it's a dark way or whatever you want to call it, when you're in control of the situation. You can get them to sing Britney Spears or whatever it is. Yeah. So how does that feel to do that? Yeah. Good. I don't know. I suppose it's because, again, I still think it's because there's value in it. Like, I see it as I'm keeping them on the phone. Why can't you... Why do you have to see value in it? Right? Because otherwise it just feels like I'm manipulating a human being and that doesn't feel right. Yeah. But do you see what your mind is doing? There's the feeling of manipulating a human being and then the rationalization comes in and says, let's balance it. Let's balance it. That's what you're always telling me. Like, here's the way I balance it. Here's the way I balance it. Here's the way I balance it. And oddly enough, that makes you feel like an evil person, but that's actually what makes you a good person. Because a good person is not someone who lacks negative feelings. A good person is one who strives to balance that sense of... Because you're a fucking predator, man. Right? That's what you do. To some degree, yeah. I lie and manipulate evil people. But yeah. You're absolutely a predator for evil people. Yeah. Right? Let's be clear. You lure people into your trap and then you pounce, which is what people are looking at. Which is what people are looking for. They're looking for you to pounce. And then what you do, fucking kit, then you be nice to them and you try to help them. And then it's like... And then everyone who's watching, like, sees this, like, snow leopard jump out of a tree and, like, grab a monkey and then starts giving it, like, an oil massage. And they're like, this is not what I signed up for. Yeah. Why isn't he tearing their limbs apart and feeding it to his children? Absolutely. That's a good description. I mean, there certainly have been times where, especially when I come up against someone who just feels completely... I think there's been a few times specifically that I have met maybe a sociopath, which I believe is someone who lacks empathy. Sure. If that's the one way of describing it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or there have been people who just do not care at all about any person's feeling whatsoever. And that has been weird and uncomfortable to come up against. And so with those people, there have been times where I'm thinking, I don't know if I can have a serious conversation with this person and tell them what they're doing is wrong. You need to stop. And so I'll pounce and set the trap or whatever you want to call it, or I'll just end the call and I'll leave them thinking, gosh, I ruined it. I could have scammed this person. And I'll just end it because I'm thinking I can't. I would rather. So here's another on that line of thought. There have been times where I've revealed to them. I call it revealing, like, yeah, taking my mask off. Which, by the way, like, can we just for a minute comment on the fact that you actually like beware like you literally become a Batman, right? Like your identity is secret. You wear something and then you go out for the greater good. And and you know, it's the world that makes you put the mask on. Right. Like the world calls you to do this because people are being scammed. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I feel like that's really humbling. I don't know how to take compliments very well because I just feel like a normal guy. But but yeah, I appreciate that. That's what makes you so extraordinary. Well, thanks. Anyway, what were we talking about? Oh, so there's times where I I do appreciate that. I don't want that to come across. Whatever. It's just hard for me to. Why is it hard for you to take that's a whole other topic, I suppose. That's a whole other because I think the simplest answer is I think that I'm just an average person who I you know, I think I'm a maybe at the root of it is like what I was saying before. I think everyone is everyone has value. Everyone has things that they can do that are that are good. And how did you agree? How did I learn what the value thing or? Yeah, how did you like so it seems like you really do have a central belief that you. I don't even know if you. I think you you convinced yourself of that right? Like that's a conclusion that probably and you kind of worked to that. And at some point you almost chose to set that as north on your compass. Yeah, I think there's times where you look at. This is all I haven't answered a lot of these questions before. It's kind of fun to think about, but I think to some degree, when you look at. I come across some evil people and. You could say. The world is terrible. Why should I have kids? Why should anybody do anything? Why would like, gosh, it's just this terrible. Evil place full of heartache and misery or whatever like you could you could have those thoughts or you could say. I guess there was a moment where I said. Like, no, I just refused to believe that that had to be acceptable. And I said, if there are people who can be evil, there has to be. And I'm not trying to say anything special about myself. I just think there was a everyone makes a choice every single day and says, am I going to do something that's a little bit good or a little bit bad? And it feels like why can't why can't we choose to do better? Why can't we be good? And I want that for my kids in my family. And I want there to be good. Let me ask you something. Why was it so emotional for you when one of your kids knocked off the thing for the other kid? Probably because they saw bad or they saw what is evil. I think it was a silly moment to some degree, because I don't think it was so. But well, I think about it. To me, it was one of the first times where I watched the whole thing take place, where I saw something bad or malevolent or whatever. I mean, they're young, so it was one of the first times that they just saw evil. And there was this look on their face of I don't understand why this happened. And I wonder if I wonder if the reason it struck you is because in that moment you saw your younger child. Start to formulate a world where this struggle that you talk about. Was not true. And what I'm sorry, this is going to be really abstract. But, you know, so this is what I'm hearing from you. You kind of talk about people making a choice, right? You're saying that all human beings have value and that sort of presupposes like in that every day, like you have a struggle and you have to make a choice to be like a good person or a bad person. And so like that, I think, is like absolutely what I've been trying to point out to you about your own psychological process is that it's lopsided towards positivity, because I think you know that there is a negative person inside. Right. There's the hunter. I think that 100 percent I could do terrible evil things. Absolutely. And it is because you recognize that beast is within you. That's why you recognize that people have value. So like it's not that people have inherent value. It's that they have the hope for value, right? That any person can be turned around, because if it is hopeless for others, then what does that mean for your own internal beast? Do you think that there is a reason why certain people get concerned with certain philosophical questions? Like you all of your abstractness has to do with like this axis of good and evil of like value and forgiveness. And can someone be bad? And can we forgive them? Or should they be, you know, should we crucify them and just like, you know, is there is there like, is there forgiveness or is there like righteous justice? About putting them in their place. And my sense is that all of your abstractions and now like so I form conclusions that are really, really unfair because I like it's like a snap judgment. Right. So the reason this isn't really a conclusion, it's really like a hypothesis for you to think about. Is it OK if I share like my hypothesis about a couple of things and just a couple of observations? I might disagree. So, yeah, absolutely. You're completely and you're going to be the judge of whether this is right or wrong. It's not my place to make a conclusion. Like you're the one who knows. Right. So I'm going to share this with you. And then I'd love to hear your reflections about like whether I'm way off base or it resonates. So the first is like, you know, I think what I think you are a good person. I don't think you're a sociopath, but I think that you do have this part of you that like we all have. And this is the problem is like people don't get this. And this is why I'm harping on this is because people feel like bad people because they have bad feelings. And by bad feelings, I don't mean anger and depression. I mean, like, you know, schadenfreude means. So schadenfreude is a German word that involves getting pleasure out of the suffering of others. I said I speak a little German. So the you know, I think it's interesting because like like human beings have that right. Like when we watch about like if you look at like some, you know, some subreddits, right, like there's a lot of there's a lot of satisfaction over like watching the idiocy of others. And I don't know how that is, but I think it's wired into us because human beings just that's like a you know, it's not like a cultural thing. It's like you can take human beings from all over the world and they're going to get satisfaction from it. And then I think we also have parts of us that that are I mean, some of us are hunters. Right. And I think that like just because you feel that degree of satisfaction, I think it's part of the reason that people watch what you do, because there's a certain like righteous satisfaction out of being able to like, you know, demolish someone who's like an evil person. And so we have these parts of us that we generally view as like dark or negative, right, like the capacity to hunt the capacity to like take advantage of someone the capacity to manipulate someone and and goodness or badness doesn't come from having those thoughts. So like, for example, people with OCD, sometimes people have obsessional thoughts that are negative. Yeah, they like walk around and they're like, oh, I'm going to go to the bathroom. And then this person feels bad because they're like, I don't want to have these thoughts, but our mind doesn't we don't control what our mind thinks of right like that's that's but we we blame ourselves for the thoughts that our mind gives us. And for someone who has anxiety, they're like, I want to just be able to interact with normal human beings at a park and they're like, oh, I don't want to have these thoughts. But instead, my mind is like, oh, you're a dumbass. Shut up. Right. You look like an idiot. No one here likes you like that's that doesn't that doesn't mean we're actually bad people thinking negative thoughts doesn't make us bad people doesn't make it true. Our thoughts are not true. And what I think is actually that I would agree with that. Yeah. Yeah. So what I think where goodness comes from is not about what your internal impulse not about what your internal impulses are but about the way that you act and form them like the way that you act on them in the life that you form for yourself. Right. So I think that's part of the thought of okay why I said, well, you have a choice every day like you have absolutely. So this is where exactly. So I think your worldview comes from this struggle that you have within yourself. Right. Because let me ask you something, kid. If you became a scammer, how successful do you think you would be? I choose not to answer that question. Absolutely. I don't need I feel like with everything that I have learned that I could be very successful. I think you'd be very good at it. And I think that I don't think that I could ever actually do it though. I feel like I would. It would be it would throw away all of my morality and everything that I absolutely. But I couldn't answer your question. I couldn't actually do it. Let's let's be clear about definitions. You're capable of doing it. You choose not to. And that's where goodness comes from. Sure. Right. Yeah, that's. Yeah, it's very interesting. I think that's part of the thought that you have within yourself. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's part of the thought that you have within yourself. Sure. Right. Yeah, that's. Yeah, it's very interesting. I think that that's yeah, I think that I would agree with what you're saying. And that's why I say that idea of now where we get value from and all that stuff. I still don't fully understand. I just you took the next point right out of my mouth. I think if I can try to summarize it is well, every day you can choose to do something that is going to make things worse and bad and evil for you or those around you. Or you can choose to do things that are good for you and your family and those around you. And that gives that brings value, maybe. Yeah, so I would change. That's why I'm that might be sort of my weird thought. Yeah. So now I think we get to maybe what we talk about next time, which is where does this come from? Right. And I think that like like in your case, I'd be really, really curious about what your upbringing was like. Who took advantage of you and whether on some level you're trying because like, you know, from a Freudian level, what we kind of say is like some people have daddy issues like. Right. So what we mean by that is like, like oftentimes, or, you know, some women especially will have a particular relationship of where their father like didn't treat them with respect. And then that translates in some way into their like current romantic relationships. The point here is that something about your upbringing in the past shapes the way that you live your life today. And that's kind of like a psychological Freudian like kind of a negative cast to it. I think that's the same side. That's a different side of the coin, but it's essentially the same coin as what Mahatma Gandhi said, which is be the change that you want to see in the world. Yeah, I absolutely agree with that statement.