 That's awesome, and I'm happy to hear that Eli So yeah, why don't we just start with like introductions and you guys tell me a little bit about you know what? Tell me a little bit about who you are and and yeah like what's going on nowadays We can do those goes okay one two three those goes On the bottom right here, I'm not sure who's on the bottom right here You're a little bit close to the mic man, we're getting some some breathing Yeah, so um I'm a spaz and you guys might have seen me on the discord in the fitness and diet Channel thanks so much. That's okay. I'm since getting therapy. I've changed a lot and I'm Now in school I'm doing an apprenticeship as well as my degree at the same time I feel like this is finally the time that I'm gonna get my degree and I feel like I'm changing a lot in terms of my experience in mental health I Come from a African Christian background in the UK and a lot of it is it's either demons or monkeys or is either I Don't know like we they don't they don't believe in it. It's like a thing that doesn't exist. Yeah, so um it's either just pray about it or Just man up. Yeah, it might be something cover of a male thing or it might be something of something in the black and Christian community but Ever since watching your stream and getting the confidence and to say that okay, I'm gonna get therapy and Getting it through my company, which is which I'm so happy about I've seen so much of a change. So It's through something called CBT cognitive behavioral therapy if anyone's heard of it and it's like changing thoughts and Like automatic negative thoughts and I feel like that's really helped as well as psychiatry as well. Shout out to Dr. K Yeah What was your name again? Raymond Ray Ray whichever whichever one. Okay, cool man. Thank you very much for sharing Who's that? I Can go next thanks man So my name is a king akin Sometimes people struggle with that good to go by my gamertag rathy too. I don't really care but Yeah, so I guess just a little bit about myself I guess what I'm doing right now I mean, I'm not doing not technically working, you know coven and all that but I've been trying to use the time off of work to Work on Like work on any everything I care about but primarily programming cool, I used to work in the software industry then I got fired for being a lazy piece of shit and so I'm trying to Not be lazy so I figure if I can like work on a project by myself and like accomplish something I Would be pretty confident that I could like work any job And at least get my work done and that kind of thing sure that that's where I'm at right now. Hmm Okay, thanks Sharing a king. Yeah Also, I just meant I also come from an African Christian background too, so I feel you man Eli you want to go? I also come from a Christian And it's a very common thing to have the same mental health thing I'm very lucky that my mom's a nurse So mental health has always been a thing that was paid attention to my family and she attempted to get me diagnosed When I was very young to my older brother also double depression and bipolar disorder and things of that nature So I was diagnosed with depression anxiety I think it was about seven to twelve years old probably more I think about seven years old and I've dealt with a lot of So in Nigeria, I'm Nigerian and Nigerian culture abuse is a very common thing it's okay to beat your children and without much care for the Pain in which they will go through the long-term effects of that even now Like actually recognizing the long-term effects of that much of what relating to the experience is feeling like a lazy piece of shit But it was the kind of struggle thing which I had where I wasn't really able to convey that I wasn't Valuing the work that I was doing because academia I like learning things I got to show you all the books I read my free time But because of the fact that when you don't do well in school in my like in my household You get beaten like and I would make mistakes a lot that insomnia because my brain like runs at 10 miles an hour So it's very hard for me to sleep consistently So that it was really hard for me to adapt to that when I was a kid So I'd sleep in this class and my teachers call me lazy I got in trouble a lot like me scratching myself and stuff like that got me in trouble once I'm sorry every time I got in trouble for anything. I had to get red slip I would I bring the rest of home then would lead to me getting beaten So I'll be in class crying and things over a red slip my teacher thinks I'm just a child crying over beginning in trouble when in reality because I'm getting like being at home and That's something that I still haven't really unpacked yet but I've been Nigerian and recognizing these long-term effects that because I think my depression my anxiety that stems from a situational thing I wasn't maybe a natural like inclination because if I had been in a better situation Maybe I wouldn't be dealing with the things in which I do deal with But I think that Much of what my experiences as a black person has been feeling that life is really worth living Simply because the color of my skin and the things I've had to experience and I went to predominantly white high school I wasn't born here. I was born in Nigeria and I came in I was about three years old and my mom is Someone because of being Nigerian. I think you may have heard this already I don't know if you guys know other Nigerian people But it's just desire to be white desire for whiteness Not sure to look white because it still wants you to retain your about or Nigerian culture But they want the conception of whiteness is the ideology to follow into and my mom was always happy with that I mean like if I have a the idea of me dating a white girl or being more into Like academia or being more into going to like she wants she sees me in the White House she's always told me things like this and It helped me at times to see that she believed in me But it also felt toxic in the sense that like if I didn't do well I get beaten and when I did do well She'd tell me she's proud of me, but it's stopping like the the Rewards didn't feel like they weighed into the like negatives negatives always felt way more Than the rewards and that thing I feel like now I've realized recently because very depressed Over the past like four months of beginning another fast four months three months of coronavirus when everything was happening Exactly. I'm a natural empath. I have a bad habit of taking like the pain of others into myself But I realized around that time and I also wasn't able to focus on school and I just got so tired of being in school Because I'm a I'm a I was a sophomore going to be a junior about a sophomore in college 20 years old, but um, I realized that the abuse to which I face makes it really hard for me to be able to Stick to things because I get bored of them very quickly. I'm not sure if that's a natural information But I'm trying to consider the possibility the possibility now that because what I had to experience growing up it became very hard for me to express myself fully and also be able to feel like school or Any kind of project that was created was worthwhile I used to write a lot of poetry and draw a lot when I was growing up as a kid and that helped me Feel better when I was very depressed but situations changed and I felt I'll be able to do that but to keep things simple being like As simple as I could be being black never really felt like a like a worthwhile thing Especially when I learned about police brutality and things like that growing up and learning about social justice learning about everything I was going on in the world and how difficult it can be simply just because of the color your skin cool, man Thanks for that intro Eli who wants to go next? Oh muted we got another boomer on here You're very quiet and a little bit laggy. Oh, sorry How's my microphone now is that oh perfect yeah, why don't you go man? Awesome. Yeah, so thank you very much for having me on the stream first and foremost It's an absolute pleasure and an honor to talk to you. My name is Mo. I go by a GBH short for a great big hug 26 I'm from Ontario Canada Born and raised here families from North Africa, Libya And I have type 2 bipolar as well It's tough. Yeah, I struggle with my identity all the time growing up. I've been told I'm not black enough I've been told I'm too white. I've been told I'm not Arabic enough all that type of stuff and It's difficult dealing with the stigmas behind mental health, especially in your own community You get told everything just pray more change your diet, you know, don't believe in the voodoo stuff all that type of shit But it's it's it's I think my biggest struggle personally just the stigmas behind mental health and Come to terms with it, especially within my own community Cool, thanks. So do you prefer a GBH or moe? Oh, it works my works. Okay Cool man How about now Yeah, a little bit better is there any way you can turn up your volume a little bit? Um, I can try to just talk about her better or myself, okay My name is Julian. I'm a second year mechanical engineer student I've been diagnosed with depression anxiety, but I'm doing a lot better now and most things you've also like my As well, like she's been really helpful But yeah, I'm just taking time during the quarantine just get better and work on myself Cool. Yeah Julie you're still crackling a little bit or do you guys hear him crackling? Yeah Okay, yeah, that's fine. Oh that was beautiful whatever he said there just oh Okay, so Thank you guys very much for You know, so you guys say you're all grateful to be here. I'm grateful to have you guys I mean, I think the few is absolutely mutual So, let me just offer a couple of thoughts and then maybe get us started so the first thought that I want to say is that you know, we're here to talk about You know the intersection of basically like race and mental health and the first thing that I want to point out is that I I think it's you know It's interesting that you guys have some things that you kind of share in terms of your perspective around or your experience Of mental health and and what you sort of gain from your culture the first thing that I want to say though is that I don't I Feel like most of what we're gonna talk about is not gonna be restricted to black people like I you know, I I know that when I went to India for the first time like there was a guy who had schizophrenia, but I studied in an ashram or a monastery and basically like people thought he was possessed by a demon and And You know, and that's what that's like the way that they interpret that so I think that like, you know There are a lot of different cultures that have stigma against mental health. I think I'm hearing a lot of struggles around Identity which I don't think is specific to a particular race or even even race in general and at the same time you know, there are certainly common themes about like religion and conceptions of mental health and the way that you guys were taught the way that people around you conceptualize like What were the challenges that you faced and what kind of labels and treatment you got because of your struggles? and so I just you know, I think that there's like sort of a Attention there between what applies to everyone and at the end of the day, I think that You know different people of different ethnicities have fundamentally different experiences in life and people of different genders have different experiences of life But I think what's really cool about Us and in our community is that what brings us together is far greater than what you know separates us So I I just kind of wanted to toss that out And you guys can jump in kind of at any time does anybody like does anybody want to comment or reflect on that or? I've got a good you I Agree completely. I think you're absolutely right I think the intersectionality is not only within the black community but in so many cultures and communities across the globe Even when it comes into things like religion that affects a lot of communities and cultures, too So I absolutely agree with you as well. Yeah Can you move forward Eli Many of my friends are of different races for the very fact that we all relate to the same childhood experiences Regardless of where we come from or like overarching cultural there doesn't have been Cool. Yeah So so there are three basic themes that I kind of heard maybe a couple people like tying together One is a sense of like identity like I thought it was interesting how you know Eli Was I wonder Eli if you were basically rewarded for being things that people around you thought was quote-unquote more white and Yes, you know like it's kind of interesting right so like that you weren't rewarded for being you you were rewarded for being What they wanted you to be Yeah, and that happened a lot in school as well So Matt where I went it was the same kind of thing and that's where code switching was always I think I had to Comprehend since I was a child. So when you're precocious I think many other guys in here can understand this when you're a precocious person of color And there's I think here in the Boston is but I'm in Boston here in Boston, especially It it's the kind of thing where you get compliments on well, your English is so good or Wow You're really smart for dot dot dot or like I say from Nigeria I have these white kids from Southie South Boston say so yeah, don't you guys live in huts? Don't you guys live in deep ease like Niger? I'm from Lagos one of the most developed parts of West Africa and like the conception of What it means to be African or what it means to be Nigerian just it just it was always right into the forefront my head and because of that I had the constant experience of Being seen as a bush boy a quote quote bush boy This is a thing in my in my culture bush boys like someone who is um How do I say how do I describe English someone who is not raised? Properly and you see that as your baseline level. So when you perform above that you see that. Oh, wow, you're You're so intelligent and I thought that it was a really weird thing to experience By I tried to learn to take pride in it but I can never really take pride in it because at peers who were not treated the same peers who are black and People of color in general, but especially the black guys in my grades They weren't treated the same way simply because the fact that they didn't have that same way of with words that I had as a child Yeah, so I think we can talk about identity Another thing that we could talk about is like I'm hearing you guys use the phrase piece of shit or lazy a fair amount like I'm just lazy and And we could kind of dig into like what that means or where that comes from and the third thing That we could talk about, you know, it sounds like you guys had a couple of really cultural intersections with mental health in terms of stigma prayer You know, it sounded like Raymond was basically like, you know told to pray the mental health away and And so, you know, we could talk a little bit about that What do you guys think or you know if you all have a suggestion for something that you'd like to talk about then? You know by all means but those are kind of the three things that seem to kind of unite a few different perspectives here so identity being a lazy piece of shit and stigma and prayer I Guess I would like to talk about one other thing. I guess being black in the gaming culture because sometimes I feel like I have to change my voice or After kind of like hide my face because there's kind of a few I don't know say I guess people hide behind the anonymity of being online and they feel free to say whatever they want and sometimes it it kind of hurts like maybe it's like a 13 year old kid on Call of Duty or on whatever Borderlands free or whatever I'm playing saying the most racist thing that if the Their parents heard they would I don't know. So I guess that's something else I would like to talk about just being blind in any community Especially like on twitch because I'm someone who like has this desire to stream But I've always been in my head about a series of things my brain likes to find excuses but one thing that I can't get past is like the use of certain emotes and like especially when you have to understand the social justice and you see that there's so much use of racial emo racial emotes to Talk about like when there is stereotype comes over caricature They use the emote in relation to that caricature and why is it that when like stealing is talked about on stream? They start using a black like the command boy try hard and things like that like and I don't want to be the person to like Ruin people's fun. I've always tried to not be that person But is this something that I personally like this I just find it really difficult to get past a lot of time Yeah, so like what is it like being a black gamer? I Mean I Feel like it almost oh no it definitely ties right back into that identity thing like on the Like it's just a common theme like okay when I'm with a bunch of other black people. All right. I'm the African guy So I'm not really one of them. All right from with white people on the black guy Not really one of them when I'm with gamers You know black gamer not really one of them. So you're not really Always feels like I'm not really allowed to be part of any group So yeah, it just feels like the same thing over and over again It feels a lot like being the butt of the joke. Sometimes it feels a lot like Especially when I play something like League of Legends that's known for having a toxic community. Sometimes it's tough Realizing that you're the come on, bro You're the try-hard seven or you're the the meme that's being made fun of and it sucks that your culture is the butt of the joke And and it's weird seeing that level of toxicity. So normalized too I can't tell you how many often times growing up seeing just so much toxic Behavior on online gaming and it's always a black community and it's tough. It sucks being that part of the joke yeah, and like that black people have seemed to serve as the punchline in a lot of jokes, too and I think that person for me like certain streamers I like I find them funny But it's also that racial agitation as a joke has always been like a pretty common thing on this platform Like I don't like to call names like I like Greek God X I think he I respect his progress he made by his weight loss the things he's done to improve himself as a person but like his liberal use of try hard throughout all of his Streaming career and the way in which he looked like he doesn't take seriously when it's being used or he promotes it being used it Stimulates this idea of try hard seven and I feel like I don't want to take that see I want to see as a joke And see like oh, yeah, there's joking but I don't know so I have a couple of questions but first can you guys start by explaining to me what these terms mean I I Don't know what Poke jump That's like excitement a common bro would be is a picture or email of black person as well as a try hard Which is of try hex loser streamer and people use it for Whenever something seen as black comes on stream and they would spam that email Most a lot of the time so so they the emotes are actually like of people with dark skin Yes, and they're referencing actual black because for a second there are because I use the word try hard a lot But yeah, but that's a different context and the original content. I talk about like you're trying harder the game Yeah, exactly. That's that's the root. That's a proper use of try hard try hex is a streamer on Twitch who's black and his email if his email from a way back when when teachers are like in the early stages of twitch You got it, and he is the one who and I think he's originated or try hard I don't it's like a Kona K Kona was a real person from twitch and that was the only email on twitch at the time And he uploaded it to test. I think was test to test stream latches test nightbot Well, nonetheless, these are like an L is another one of those ones who describes a Muslim person And I think now describes an Asian person by thought. I'm not sure which Nationality specifically but there's so many different ones. They're literally just a person who was of a specific race that That's crazy I didn't even realize that I mean, I guess it's no surprise that they're racist emotes but But I wasn't aware of that so I'm kind of curious Mo you were talking about sort of like You know sort of How can I say this like there's almost a certain constancy To what you guys face in terms of like it's like I'm just hearing all of you guys talk about Gaming and that there's like just an additional layer of shit that keeps you from having fun when you game Like what does that make sense? Like I don't know how else to put it. What is that? Yeah, what does that do to you? It makes me it makes me want to build up barriers and it makes me like develop a thicker skin I find like seeing like for example playing World of Warcraft or League of Legends I see so many people whose usernames are just altered spellings of the n-word or Big n-word or something like that Like just finding some way to be to use that word in any term It's and it feels as almost as if it's like super forced on their part But when I see that you grow like indifferent to it, you recognize that that's not you you recognize that that's not true You realize that like you just have to develop these barriers I find to just have such a thicker skin because of it Yeah, so like, you know that actually seems so insidious to me because it's like you have to You have another layer of like cognitive shit that you're dealing with and you're playing a game like I've experienced a fair amount of racism in my life like I grew up in East Texas and I'm brown and You know any color except for white in in East Texas, you know, you deal with racism and At the same time though when I play video games Like I never think about my ethnicity unless I'm like doing an Indian accent and being as racially offensive as possible, but You know and so I'm just like I'm just imagining that when you guys like play games It's sort of like you have to do some kind of like work or it's just hard for you to just like play a game Yeah, you got to keep up the cold switch even while you're playing the game We want to play games of random people and then you end up mind of killing with a kid who? Who does as soon as he hears a black guy's voice new things He needs to start acting some kind of way or start saying the n-word to start doing something extra and it makes the kind of Thing it's not just gaming but like even just being out in public in general the first time I really experienced like being seen as a stereotype like fully was when the guy from France this um This exchange student I would I didn't I wasn't mad about item about this Bigger portrayal about how black people a capture of black people in the world But the first thing he did when you saw me was throw gang signs Say and as a way to say hi and I understood that he was trying to be nice and you that's what is this a caricature and caricature is something that has always bothered me since I was very youngest because you recognize the ways in which black people have been even like similar not as black people any Brace for that matter days and why has been assimilated in society was through their caricature So if you've played into the caricature you played into those ways in which you're already seen that people have to question Then you can find success in the conventional society. You can assimilate into heteronormative parts of society Yeah, that's deep man I'm also kind of just noticing that you you guys have a I'm sort of seeing another identity piece here, too that like You know, it seems like you guys are just not treated For who you are it's like 80% of who you are maybe even less than 20% of like what people think you are Yeah, yeah, yeah for sure what's that like Tyrone It's very tiring and that's what plays into my depression as well because and it just makes being alive and having to be an actor in the world very tiring It feels like I'm constantly putting on a face and it feels like I shouldn't have to do that either Like one key problem I have is that why should black kids have to get used to hearing the n-word Why should they have to even get like my palm is having to get used to ignorance now There's black is by any race for that matter. Why do you have to get used to ignorance? It's like of course you should go thick skin the first you should learn to not be too sensitive But why is that someone that person should have to get used to? Why should they have to get used to hate? Yeah, what's it like to have to get used to hate? And I don't know if you want to jump in because I can't face I was kind of thinking a lot of that because like in high school a lot of times like the way I would just like interact with other like a Predominantly black high school, but I was like always in robotics and stuff. So I was surrounded by mostly white people So I was always kind of the joke but to kind of like not survive the fit in basically I was just always making like jokes about myself or whatever the meaning Marius And I never really noticed like how harmful that was until my teacher like pointed it out She was like joining like you're okay. Do you like hate your race? There's something else like no, just like they think it's funny So play along and then now I realize that's just a horrible thing to do Julian Your voice is still coming through kind of robotic. Oh Sorry, there we go I Move my mic slightly So like slightly what I just moved it. Yeah, I just moved it a bit. Okay, great. Yeah now it's good What what did you hear not much? Okay, I'll try I'll try that again Like I had I was in robotics a lot So and they were like it's like Florida it's kind of like a deep south Oh, they're pretty racist and like Everything and they got to the point where like some of my teachers were like concerned that like I actually hated my race or something I was like, no, I don't really care. It's just like So it sounds like you were being an actor too yeah, but it's really like Tiring and I like I think he said to the machine like he was using a lot of willpower to keep going and then like At some point you just had to run out Hearing other people kind of say that too. I'm kind of curious It was akin is that right? Am I pronouncing that right? Um Not exactly but I take akin as well How do you pronounce it Akin Akin, okay. Yeah Akin and Raymond do y'all want to jump in like what's any thoughts about what we're talking about? Yeah, I mean Now that I mean now that people are talking about it, I'm kind of like reflecting on like so for high school I went to a predominantly white school and And Like at the time I was a loner and I was like, okay, that's just my thing Which is true to an extent but I do think that being one of like three black guys in the high school made me much more extremely of a loner and I think it was yeah, and I think it was there was a lot of like These guys it felt like these guys had never seen a black person before And So they just had all these really dumb Like these really dumb black jokes like not intended to be offensive, but they're like wow I've never gotten to use this before kind of thing and it was just like it's just like a constant like baseball kind of situation And but you know that like I know they don't have a bad intention to it so it's just like I guess I just got to sit here and Listen to this nonsense every single day And I think that It does highlight the difference between us and made it easier for me to feel Isolated and I already would have probably Like I already would have isolated myself a little but that just made it extreme where I was like talking to almost no one Yeah, for me I guess for in terms of being an actor I come from South London I'm Nigerian as well. So we have a lot of slang that we use but working in like a professional environment I felt like I had to act a certain way to Kind of survive if that makes sense. So, um, I Guess trying to be understand what that means so if Like being myself or I'm using like slang terms that I may use like It may be a joke but a fam and bro if you guys might have heard that before Like I guess like in a professional setting where let's say like it is a boardroom and everyone's speaking a posh posh English sort of way I felt like I had to imitate that to to if that makes sense after I had to imitate that to I guess to survive in the workplace and I felt like sometimes I had to also be overly friendly as well So like when I go into elevators and stuff like that I'm smiling everyone that knows me in my personal life. I Try to be kind wherever possible, but whenever I can but when I go into an elevator The first ring first instincts of like a woman would be like to clench onto her handbag or Say oh you scared me when I'm just walking Like I normally walk is I'm not trying to be scary. I'm just me. I'm and I guess Yeah, just having to be overly friendly. So I don't scare anyone. Um, I feel like yeah, that's how I feel in terms of acting in the workplace and Sounds like you guys have to compensate a lot Yeah We have to be constantly aware of the fact that people see you in some kind of way And that's why I don't like being around cops. I've never like being around even if I'm doing nothing wrong I've been put like stopped. I'm lucky. I'm lucky telling me stop twice in my life but each of the contexts in which I was stopped as well something stupid and just because the fact that I'm walking around while being black in the neighborhood that's apparently supposed to be with Dominic white and I've growing up and like in here in Boston This is Dorchester and there's South Boston and I went I grew up going to a school from fifth to 12th grade that was predominantly white because it bordered between those two neighborhoods and Because of that experience I found that You always have to be walking on because even when I was we had like debates on things black lives matter back in 2014 They're in the Ferguson riots. They're always the perspective of these kids and I've never got angry at them so much as the fact that I was just sad that their own ignorance because they were unwilling to learn Or only to see a world outside themselves and someone says black lives matter It doesn't mean that other people's lives don't matter too They're just making a statement and you can also say Asian lives matter You can say Hispanic lives matter you can say Indian lives matter You can say so many people's lives matter, but it doesn't devalue the lives of other people But other people still have the desire to say that no all lives matter But why should you have to put no before that? I think those can these two things are not being truly exclusive they can coexist But I have to find that most of my childhood was having to educate people on I don't like the the closest phrase is you have to educate your oppressor to say the least That's and that's the closest thing I can understand to be able to express like much of my life has been trying to educate people on where I'm coming from and Not being defined by my skin Can you guys? Explain to us what what what black lives matter means to you? Yeah, to me black lives matter too I think that's what people sometimes forget is that we're not saying only black lives matter. We're saying black lives matter, too And I think that's the biggest distinction When I hear it like growing up in Canada It's I hear more polite forms of racism being told something like all lives matter or being told that there's only one race and that's human You're undermining the true ethnicity that I am you're undermining my experiences and the shared experiences of many cultures and many diasporas And when you when you say something like all lives matter, yeah, obviously we get that all lives do matter But black lives matter, too That's my point And racists have literally employed what he just said There's only one race in the human race, but we have the right to say we want to keep this place white I've literally heard those words verbatim in the interview I wish I could pull it up right now But in the interview that Oprah Winfrey did a long time ago I forget which location it was but it was a location with that to fill with tons of Hate crimes against black people and where they literally have sprayed the underwear in places that black people congregate and it's the experience black lives matter to me is that No matter how wrong The crime a black person has committed they don't deserve to die on the street like a dog And i've had to like my especially now with the protest i've been having recently I think I should seek mental health mental health help mental health help with this because after having to see so many black people die in the street and like you shouldn't Having to see people bleed out like you literally you're seeing it in your with your own eyes You're seeing like what what a human being? looks like as they're dying, especially a black like this for Two cops putting the person down and they're not holding still for any whatever reason might be They just get shot and killed and then they handcuff them And i've had to see that at least 10 times in the past week alone And it's I feel like the fact that i'm so desensitized to it bothers me a lot Because i'm the kind of person who's naturally empathetic and I feel other people's pain very strongly And i'm at the point where I can look at that And I just I can I keep I can I just have to keep scrolling And that's why I haven't been on social media that much recently because as much as I want to be retweeting what's happening and try To spread awareness about what's happening the revolution that is going on It is difficult in the sense that you just see how much like people are why did why did Why does it take people to die for justice to come? Why do we wait on how to wait until after bryan or taylor is dead or george florida is dead or almond arbery is dead or Tamir rice is dead like so many young black people and black trans people too or black people of any kind of identity Why do they have to die first? For justice to come so what i'm what i'm hearing from you guys just overwhelmingly is a sense of like it shouldn't be this way That's what i'm hearing like and it's not it's not just people dying although it definitely applies there But like even just you know Just the way you guys grew up and and like when i'm thinking about raymond walking into a boardroom like he just can't speak like he I and i'm inferring that you sort of speak differently And I I you know, you just you guys just it's I don't know how it's like you guys are playing life like on hard mode It's like this is the normal game And then there's the game with like all this other like layer of shit piled on top Oh my gosh, um, I think southbrook made a joke on that on one of their games that they made um The black if you made your character black it was odd That was difficult to Oh my gosh 20 greater chance to Be stopped by the police Like minus five to speech or like people's reactions to you or like, you know, you try to get a job you get rejected immediately Yep, you just played the big thing. It's really like when I think about playing a game I've been playing like I don't know if you all have played total war But i've been i've been playing a lot of total war and it's like literally like the game just you know on hard mode It's like you just get like penalties to everything That's what it sounds like. Yeah It's like number of people you can connect with easily at school goes down from like 50 to three I know It's just like I mean, i'm laughing about it. But I mean it sounds fucking awful Like it just it just sounds like just just harder like it sounds a little bit more tiring a little bit more exhausting It sounds like you guys just have to spend a little bit more energy or maybe even a lot more energy to kind of do things I'm really curious though raymond. I'm just so fascinated though. What do you think would happen if you didn't change the way that you spoke? Um, i've got no idea Um, I have to try it to find out Yeah, yeah I mean What do I think would happen I guess it would be a lot harder for people to understand me because um, I work in a Global company and there's people from all around the world. Um So when we do like a zoom call or a webex call, um If I was to speak in a south london accent or um pigeon english Which is a dialect in the eurobri culture, which is in nigeria it will I i would think that it's it would be a lot harder for people to understand what i'm saying because of it being a another Uh dialect or or lang it's the same language, but Yeah, just a bit harder to understand. I guess maybe I can try try and this um Try this and see if you guys understand me I'm gonna understand you ron I mean You want to go for it? I was just kind of curious like you know what what happens when you guys Because I and this kind of comes back to identity that you know So i'm getting the sense that it's hard for y'all to be like fully authentic And yeah, i'm kind of curious like have you guys So, you know, I think that a lot of times we learn the behaviors that we do Right. So like we learn to put up barriers We learn or the reason that we put up barriers is because when we don't have barriers We get hurt in some way So i'm kind of curious have you guys had periods of your life or things that you remember where you like really did try To be you and you were like punished for it I mean, um, I guess kind of so I can move back home for coronavirus like uh, and basically just being home Like around my dad again And have like the greatest childhood and he uh, he doesn't allow me to think for myself I think I was telling him about something I wanted to do like in the future just like I was like a life goal and uh, he said like If I did that I would be failing him and like all the work he did to get me here would be for nothing Uh, so that was rough But I was just trying to like we're still getting robot like julian. I'm sorry. Is that better? Yeah. Yeah Okay, um, basically when I came home, uh for the break, uh, it started Uh, oh that's not good Is that better? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I'll try to it's like this score only wants you to transmit the words Is that better? Just trying to censor everything big substance that you have to say Um, all right. Hopefully that works. Um, but when I came back home and i'm just around my dad more the best relationship Uh, I tried to tell him that like I was thinking about like maybe looking into psychology because I would want to work on like Prison reform program that would help get like prisoners like better acclimated to the workforce afterwards and I told my dad this um, and I was trying to like open up a little bit and he told me like Uh, if I did that I would fail him. Um, and all the work he would do like to get me to where I am It would be for nothing. Uh, so that's kind of christ and I gave him like a second chance like a few days later Take that back reword it and he like tripled down on it. I was like, all right I'm gonna be there Julian i'm just gonna ask uh, someone else to just kind of reflect back what they heard just because it didn't come through entirely clearly Does somebody want to just share what you heard from julian? Yeah, sure. I can so julian's saying that he wants to have a psychology program Well, he was talking to his dad. He wanted to do something different with psychology that could help the prison reform to help people get reacclimate society and he Well his father disagreed and said that he shouldn't do that and they talked about it again before they looked down on it and I think he said that he has to pretty much figure it out on his own And has to be on his own to be able to figure um to get b and do the things he wants to do Yeah, basically, that's basically what I said. Yeah I mean, I don't I don't want to skip the part where he his dad said If you do that, you will waste everything that i've done for you Yeah, like that's fucking brutal. Jesus. Yeah Does that resonate with you for a particular reason? I mean it sounds like um I mean my like, uh, my parents are I mean my mom is very is actually very nice, but like I think from every other nigerian american that i've ever met there is just a lot of pressure to like be Like the best ever so At this point at this point. I mean my my mom is like pretty mellow at this point But it's already so deep in my psyche that that's just my own internal voice at this point so I Yeah, I would like that would be my own mind telling me like yeah if you do this other thing then you're not you're wasting all of the efforts of uh of your parents of Of everything that you've done up to this point. So Um, it resonates on that level Same here, bro like that's Really me too and i've had the conversation with my mom because college is a very difficult thing for me And I tried having the conversation with my mom to even just defer for last semester because I wasn't doing well in school because I was pretty much messed up my first year and It even got so heated to the point where he said if he thinks he knows so much better he can live on his own and I like that she would say that because I It really messed my mental for a little while and still does in a lot of ways, but I also struggled with the fact that She only sees me as an extension of herself, especially when I got my first tattoo it became the kind of thing where I wasn't able to Be who I wanted to be for myself It was only about how she saw me and who she thought I needed to be in the world and all her fear is in Sure, and she's also christian. She wants to be a minister. So that's that on top of all the other things You know, it's but i'm lucky that she is at least as accepting as she is because my brother is trans or female or male and he has been able to experience that for himself and be a human being in the world and be a full person in the world because She listened to what I had to say one day and was able to accept that for her for her beliefs aside I let him be who he is so I do believe there's a hope for my relationship with my mom but just being able to understand how to talk to her and Make amends with all the things in which we have dealt with because she i've been in a similar situation As alphonse Do you guys Oh, go ahead julian. Sorry. Oh, I was gonna say like that was super wholesome. Um, like I love that. That's great I'm glad that you said you're uh, male or female, right brother. Yeah, he's my brother Uh, i'm glad he I guess like literature and everything like that's great to hear Um, have you guys found oh, sorry I'm worried to say something and I just lost the thread of it Yeah, so I you know, it sounds like julian's dad was pretty rough on him. It sounds like akeen and eli's mom Mothers have been pretty supportive. I'm curious. What about like How what's been y'all's relationship with your dad or? If mo or raven want to jump in like it sounds like family dynamics are pretty different So, um my parents emigrated to the uk went off in their late 20s So, um, they had a lot of expectations when I was younger So i'm guessing this is similar to a lot of immigrant cultures where um, it's evar First class which is an a in the u.s or bust. So this this is I think my second time. Um, So this this is I think my second time, um, I'm trying uni university and i'm liking it a lot more now, but now that i've said, okay I'm just going to do my best. It's not I have to get a first class. I have to get 70 percent I have to get the a plus. It's it's just me trying my best but um, I struggled a lot with um perfectionism because um, the only time I saw my dad happy was when I came home with the um, the level five which is like the Yeah with the height which is like a high school in Um primary school, uh, I guess the terms let me let me translate to the american Uh middle school middle school that might be okay uh like the high school in middle school if I got like a A c is like why didn't you get an a if I got 94 percent? Why didn't you why did you miss that six percent? Is it got to the point where um? Yeah, it's never like Yes, it's never it was never enough unless it was 100 and even if it was 100 it was uh, just a clap and onto the next one Let's see Yeah, yeah, let's see you do it again, but yeah exactly um so Yeah going through therapy, uh, how to um on tango a lot of those mental models I had of perfectionism I have to get that a Because a lot of it I couldn't control. Um, all I could do was my best and when it got to the The person was marking it. Maybe if they're having a bad day or they had a argument with their girlfriend they might be like, okay, let me give this person a 65 and sort of a 70 and Yeah, um, yeah therapies helped a lot but I feel like it's something that's That's shared amongst all of us. Yeah, or at least a lot of us I I just wanted to clarify my mom has been supportive But for it's only within things that fit her frame her paradigm and slowly she's coming out of that But like I relate to what he just said so strongly and it's still a problem that I deal with right now my mom Because college is just I want to help people in my life But I just don't like academia anymore and it just it methods this past three months was really hard for me Simply because I could not even get myself the type of word in an essay and I was struggling with just doing online classes simply I It just felt like all the trauma of academia was rising up in me in that moment and I wasn't able to Perform anymore because they were it just didn't feel worth it anymore and I get to that point so many times with school So i'm a little bit All right, so let me actually ask you guys first so like What do you guys think about our discussion so far is anything? that you want to talk more about or anything that you think is Just like to kind of check in with you guys. What do you guys how do you think we're doing? I think um, I think a topic we should touch on as well as the idea of like Normality and the idea within cultures of like what is normal and how you're supposed to be a true african Are you supposed to be a healthy person? Um, I also struggle a lot with like toxic masculinity as well. I find it's really prevalent in a lot of our culture, especially amongst youth Uh, and especially amongst the older heads as well it's you know real men don't cry and real men don't have these feelings and Real men aren't this and real men aren't sick and all that type of stuff and it's those stigmas that really affect me personally I've never i'm thankful in the sense that my family has been pretty supportive in a lot of aspects uh, especially with Um my mental health but it took them a while to work up to that it took them a while to get used to it Um, I struggle a lot with my peers. I find that it's difficult to be myself around certain groups of friends And especially growing up in high school. I had that issue a lot Naturally, i'm a very energetic and flamboyant person But I have to tone that down and I have to you know Not be gay or not be this way or not be that or stuff like that or not be too black Not be too arabic not be too whatever And I think it's similar what raymond deals with in the boardroom Like it's you have to police your own language and you have to police yourself and it sucks and it's training to have to constantly do that So let's talk about that mo Let's do it. Let's do it. I Don't want to just define sorry to interrupt but someone says that define toxic masculinity So toxic masculinity based on my personal experience of my understanding of the definition was It's the kind of masculinity that Forces you to be a specific kind of way. It doesn't matter what way that is, but usually it's aggressive hyper masculinity That is the toxic kind of thing and things that devalue you if you don't fit the common frame of what a man is And my mom is also like women also perpetuate in my culture at least perpetuate that same thing I'm supposed to be the man of the house originally being the only boy in the family Being the man of the house is making and her believing that I have to be responsible for things or act in a certain kind of way or look a certain kind of way or Perform in a certain kind of way simply because i'm a guy Anybody else want to add to ely's definition, thanks for that man um kind of it's How do I explain this? it's kind of what I like the world's kind of just jumping their own like view of what you should be on you and usually it's Just like like why aren't you doing this and so like why are you doing this instead of this and you should be like everyone else To you like you should be at this level rather than where you're at right now It's really hard to deal with and Yeah, yeah I I hate that there are strong feelings of shame when it comes to toxic masculinity You feel embarrassed because you're not a certain way or you feel like like it's always people shaming you into acting a certain way And that's never a good motivator I don't think for like how to be and neither is that correct in the first place I agree. What have you been shamed into doing? Um, I guess having like a traditional job having a traditional career, uh with my family Um acting a certain way being traditionally arabic being traditionally muslim being traditionally african being the breadwinner of the family and it's It's tough because I get told like when I first was found that when I was going through my manic phases and I had my Dealings with bipolar disorder. It was tough because I was told to just pray it away I was told to you know, just exercise and eat right don't listen to your doctor. He's giving you pills Don't take the pills But none of that shit worked for me and none of that shit's never worked for me It was always seeking genuine help and like being able to come out of my own barrier in my own comfort zone to accept that I need help and to go forward with that and it sucks because it's like I have to break through so many learned behaviors that I was shamed into into feeling like it like It's really tough. It's really tough Yeah, I'm gonna ask people if they've had a similar experience But I just want to comment for a second because you said you had to break through your own barriers to accept help I think the really insidious thing is you don't have to break through your barriers You had to break through the barriers that people put around Right, like the idea that you can't get help or that you shouldn't get help or you know Help is for the weak is not something that came from you. It came from the people around you The people around And I just want to be a little bit careful I'm a big fan of like personal growth and overcoming your own challenges But I'm what I'm hearing from you guys pretty overwhelmingly is that like the challenges that you guys face are not ones that you put up It's the challenges that people put on Right, like 94 isn't good enough even 100 isn't good enough. You've got to do it. Like what about tomorrow? You know and and I think what I'm hearing from you guys over and over and over again is that it's not like it's not you It's the people around you and the expectations that you put on yourself and then eventually you end up thinking like like akeem does With like oh, I'm a lazy piece of shit and I'm gonna get my confidence back. I should do a project all on my own I'm curious. What do the rest of you guys think about that? I've been there and I felt that so strongly Especially when I was even just seven years old because one of my teachers said I was lazy Because I couldn't focus in class because I was not able to be the person that my Everybody tells me I need to be to be successful in this life And that made me feel as though I could never really be successful in my own personal dreams and made me on Lose the desire to do anything this creative constructive or pursue anything outside of academia because it felt as though that was worth this In the eyes of everybody around me What do you guys think? I can't do it. Sorry I'm sorry. I think the lack of self-belief was yeah So what do you guys think about akeem's plan and sorry if I'm sort of shifting gears for a second But I just can't let this slide because at the end of the day like I feel like Yeah, I want to tackle something with you guys And and I noticed that I just can't help myself in the sense that I get I get the sense that akeem is a little bit stuck right now and And we should think about that because y'all have felt that way, too And I can't sorry if I'm not being honest I feel like y'all have felt that way, too And I can't sorry if I'm putting you on the spot, man No, that's great. So like what do you guys think about his plan of like finishing a project on himself so he can build confidence? I I mean, I understand why he feels the need to do that because I kind of think down to that myself Yeah, just just with like general schooling like Like last week a false mister wasn't the greatest because like towards the end I had a friend die Um, and then I like my grades just dropped naturally So then the next semester I didn't like accept help from anyone else like i'm just gonna Do with this semester myself to prove it that I can't continue being an engineer Um, technically like I did a lot better Um, so I feel really good about school right now, but like I fully understand like why he feels the need to do that Other people have thoughts I've tried doing I started writing every day. I'm not sure if it was you who motivated me I think it was you motivated me to start writing more every day when I was watching one of your streams But I that's one project and I started drawing trying to be more creative. I saw my own I wrote a first poem i've written in years and just tried I think that's my personal product maybe But I can understand his need to do that to feel creative But I mean feel like he needs to well feel as doing it as a solution to get back on track But for me work doing more work has always been more inversely proportional to my happiness So Yeah, I would agree with that as well um So for me i've got like an assignment due in one month But um, whenever I look at the top of the mountain, okay, i've got 5000 words to write It sounds so crazy like oh how am I going to find the time? Um, but breaking up into small simple steps so um I've got like some productivity journals and i've been reading the book called limitless by jim quick And he talks about something called small simple steps So I always think about okay, what's a small thing that I definitely can't fail at so it might be okay Something really small. Okay. Let me open up the The word document. Okay. Let me write a title. Let me Write one sentence. Let me search um this journal let me search this journal and every single time I hit one of those accomplishments, I feel a greater sense of of Uh kind of confidence in myself that okay, I might be able to do this Um, so I I would I would yeah also echo that point that um A small project can help you with confidence akeem One thing too that happened to me though in relation to what you just what you just said So I learned that too from this book called the solar not giving a fuck and also went into the game with some ted talks and also Dr. Kate talked about doing the bare minimum and that was what got me to start writing again But I tried having that before when it came to those essays and the depression I was dealing with those past three months And I was dealing with it's like I couldn't when I wasn't trying to do that one word Or those like even just like the title This feeling of I couldn't breathe was rise up within me and I wouldn't even be able to do that and I think that's something that has taught me that I need to reevaluate a lot of things about my life Because I was in a place Where like I was saying with the abuse and things why do I feel as though there's no point in even doing this anymore I can't get myself to the bare minimum And before I was able to motivate myself using my mom's like how how she got to work And how everything she sacrificed to come to america and everything she sacrificed for us to have the life that we have I was able to let that motivate me for a while, but that just doesn't work anymore And I was very I became very spiritual to over the past year from after reading the powers now learning how to meditate and being able to have The ability to bring mindfulness Into each moment that really helped me get through the past year, but for some reason just stopped being enough So let me let me just ask oh, I i'm curious about that elai, but let me just go back to akeem for a second Akeem, do you get the sense that so julian used the phrase prove it? Akeem, do you get the sense that like completing a project on your own is proving something? Absolutely, what are you trying to prove? Um, I mean on a very like Like on a very logical level I do like I do think I actually need to prove that I can do the work given that I was fired And it would be a very good story to tell at my interview that I completed a project And have solved whatever issue got me fired in the first place but then on a more emotional level I Like getting fired from that job was kind of like the natural culmination of like how i've always done things I have always had passed everything and been lazy for Literally my entire life and so I would like to prove to myself that is No longer a thing at some point and I guess I want this to be the proof of that So i'm sure that your colleagues can can sympathize with that I'm kind of curious raymond when you were talking about, you know opening up the word document and putting the title on there Are you trying to prove anything? Um, yeah that I can do something because um i'm 23 now and i've been diagnosed i'm not sure if it's Uh wise to say some of the diagnosis i've i've had but Uh, yeah, i've i'm not sure either no idea Hopefully it helps someone um, so i've been diagnosed recently with adhd Um anxiety and depression at uh, uh, and sorry at an adult age and um Yeah, that felt weird to say Let's just pause for a second That um Like whenever I told some somebody that um It felt it felt like an excuse that a lot of the time when I was like trying to read my textbooks, um I was like, okay, how come I can't read this? I'll try and read for 20 minutes and how come it's not going into my head I'll try and read it again and I'll hear like a bird outside or and I get distracted and I have to focus back on the book and Um, yeah So what was the question that's okay, do you does anything have any idea what raymond is experiencing right now? uh, yeah, I do because I also Have to deal with add a lot and sort of I haven't been diagnosed with it since I was like a child, but I still like feel the same as I did as a child But yeah, I get it. It always felt like it was limiting me and I kind of resented It before that like I was always just upset that I was add or whatever and it was affecting like My productivity and everything And I don't really talk about it a lot. So like how he he goes like it's weird to kind of say out loud That it sounds to me like What you're feeling is that you know you Always knew that something was really hard for you, but yeah other people didn't understand it And it was like we were trying to tell people like hey, this is actually hard. Like I'm not I'm not stupid Like I sit down and I work hard and the letters just don't come into my head after 20 minutes Yeah, and then people Basically held you to a standard that was not who you are And it comes back to identity. It's like you tried to tell people who you are And and what just think about this right because we think about adhd is an illness or deficiency And so it's even weird for me to say like you are like you were a completely normal human being in that moment And the world didn't treat you that way And it can be hard for you to find A reason and even then I don't I don't know if you guys have seen me like talk about adhd before but I think basically like you guys aren't ill. It's just your brain is not designed to look at a textbook for an hour Because there are lots of different brains and and like when we were evolving like no human being had to sit in one place For an hour and stare at one object And and I kind of talk a little bit about And and I kind of talk a little bit about hunters versus farmers and hunters are people that Are taking in a lot of different stimuli and new environments And then there are farmers that like to wake up the same time every day and do the same thing every day until they die And there are different kinds of brains And if people are wondering, you know raymond is a guffa which is kind of interesting because your adhd is a lot that kind of winds up but Um But yeah, I mean I I think what i'm hearing from you raymond is really that like it feels somewhat liberating to get a diagnosis is that fair? Yeah, I would definitely agree with that because all this time I was told that I was laid lazy I'm not trying hard enough even though I'll try okay. Let me read this textbook for two hours but it's just not going in i'm trying my hardest but It was it was so difficult, but it kind of felt like a sense of relief that Okay, there's something I can do about it. It's not it's not that i'm hopeless it's something that I can work on and Yeah, that's what I would say on it for sure real quick moses Sorry, sorry moses wants me to ask. Um alphonse or I think it's julius. I'm sure his name is julian He wants julian. Yeah, he wants us to see if you can use your phone on your webcam mic or your phone Oh, i'll try that right now Thanks, ilai hello, can you still hear me? Yeah. Yeah better. All right sounds good fixed Thanks, ilai. So ikeen let me ask you something. How long have you felt like you're a lazy piece of shit? I'm trying to remember if there was a time where I didn't think that Maybe I don't I might not have thought that when I was like seven or eight or something I took a joke right? right, so like i'm kind of curious like You know, when were you guys taught these things about yourself Right, I was just told what you do you feel to it's like when you fail to perform I guess And you feel you fail to perform for such a young age because math was something I really struggled with as a kid So you have it's reinforced in me since I was a child because my mom would get angry at me For not doing well when I was younger, but I tried to get help with my with school work But it never really wore fruit Also, I found a teacher as a who was compatible with as a person who understood how I learned And I got lucky to have gotten that when I was in the fifth grade for my because I almost got held back Because I had to go to counseling for depression for two weeks and my grades dropped while I was away Not in two weeks. I think was longer than that But I was away from school for a while because they sent me to get counseling for depression at this program And they were sending me my homework because somehow somehow I still ended up failing for that year And I had to go with this math tutor Who I end up actually becoming close to as a male mentor because I don't have a father at home So it's that kind of like a pseudo father figure that I had at the time Julian you wanted to say something Um Yeah, basically like my dad was always like what I would always work with and doing like contraction jobs basically and Uh, I would say my brother he's a little bit younger than me He just do something like completely wrong and I'd be like, you know, he can get away with that. Like why can't I? Uh, and my dad would be like Julian just stop half-assing everything like constantly like that was always like the phrase It's like I was just always told that I was a lazy piece of shit and I was half-assing everything um, and it wasn't like I got out of that environment when I was able to like Figure out like no, I can be a productive person it's possible I think maybe most yeah, go for it. I'm sorry But uh, julian is it possible to change your mic to the webcam because you turned on your webcam, but it actually didn't change the microphone Um, okay. Let me check that. Yeah, your webcam may not have just like an inbuilt microphone Or the alternative is to use like a mobile device phone For discord. Oh, i'm sorry. I didn't realize you were typing in the chat Uh, hang on See i'm not the only boomer Uh Wait, can you talk? Okay, now you're muted Uh, you know what you may have to move this is gonna be kind of weird turn the webcam off But move the webcam closer to you if you can Uh, okay, do you have a phone? Okay, does it have discord Discord you can't hear you. Yeah, you're muted I think he's gonna try connect boots for him. Yeah. Oh saved. Okay, beautiful Pogs in the chat boys. Good luck strong work. Thank you. Thanks mozes Um Yeah, I mean I I think it just comes back like i'm just hearing this theme over and over again about like You guys are just not allowed to be yourselves You know whether it's whether it's race or whether it's like parental expectations or whether it's like mental health issues or You know like religious beliefs or or you know, and it like I mean it starts so young Like I don't I really don't I mean I don't I think that lazy piece of shit is Just a poor diagnostic term It's how we feel because we don't understand what's going on Right, it's like telling someone who has cancer that they're weak because no one understands what cancer is It's like there's something that's getting in the way of you being the person that like you can be and You know, I I i'm not sure exactly Yeah I'm kind of curious. I mean what what has been y'all's experience? So it sounds like for raymond it was like sort of liberating to sort of kind of find a diagnosis and get a sense of like, you know Some of the the way that his brain is wired What's it been like for you guys? What's been y'all's experience with sort of interacting with the mental health system? It's been always been terrible I tried to keep therapy a lot growing up and most of my therapy Told me that you just try fitting in those try being like everybody else And my brother would look me in the face. I told him that they told me that he told me to stop seeing them and But i've learned I listened to you recently when you said you should work with the therapist and let them know When what they're saying isn't helping you and try to have that proper dialogue with them And now from like if I pursue therapy in the future, i'll definitely try to do that Previously, I did try to do that in some ways But it didn't bear any fruit and I feel like would probably best for me to end those relationships like what I did But definitely something to consider in the future Well, what's Um, it's been difficult, uh knowing that i'm bipolar it feels like I have a permanent debuff But it's working around that debuff that inspires me um It gives me a lot of anxiety when I think about the future, especially I think that's my number one problem as a person I can't stop thinking about the future and that scares me because I don't want to go manic again And i'm afraid of going manic again, and i'm afraid Of the feelings that come around Being bipolar and i'm afraid of the results of those actions like so for me personally before I was diagnosed I had a really bad manic episode And the like the trauma behind that episode and the results of that episode still reverberate today And so it's it's liberating in the sense that now I know what's wrong with me and I get it And I totally understand that and i'm working with a doctor to help that But it's still it still feels like a debuff. It still feels like a monkey on my back, but I just can't get rid of I'm wondering if i'm hearing like another like point in the favor of it shouldn't be this way Like that's another theme i've heard from you guys What do you how do you feel strong feeling? Yeah? Yeah, I didn't ask for this for sure Like it certainly feels like you know, I didn't ask for this shit But and now it's like learning how to deal with that shit What do you guys do when the world is just an unfair place and life is a shit game where you you know You got a randomly generated character and your like stats are all like warped Just kind of make the best of it like it is what it is. It's like So So I went through a whole journey of finding myself since I was 13 It went through self-help. I got addicted to self-development and whatnot and I was reading a lot of self-help books for a very long time I fell into like Tony Robbins and reading books on like how to win friends My first one I ever read was how we're in friends influence people Yeah, and I would go on from there into reading the alchemist and that was my favorite book of all time the book That would be saving for myself and I would say that It was the thing I did when the world felt like an unfair place was try to create a person that I would like to be The person I could look up to try to be the father to myself that I didn't have growing up and it was through reading books and trying to look through art and this is like people like Alan Watts or Um the book um, how's as a man thinketh by James Allen Looking for help looking for answers. I would say it was through looking for answers That I tried to find a like tried to find who I was and kept on putting myself out there and I grew very awkward Because I didn't have that many friends and didn't know many people so I challenged myself often to meeting people I was really bad talking to girls, especially and my dating life was something that I wanted to get right and it was through telling myself to talk to girls and mess up over and over and over again to learn about it and Learn to see them first of all see them as human beings because that's something that you're definitely not taught when you go over the toxic Household but um, it was through learning that and having female friends and going through so many different things and learning to Love even if that even if those people that you love hate you just because the way you look choosing to love them anyway That's what really helped me and choosing to find things that makes me happy in my worst moments like music and art So I you know, I I think it's it's tricky because like on the one hand I hear Eli talking I'm curious what you guys think about this and I hear him say like I taught myself to be the you know The father that I like to be my own father to be to be the father that I didn't have And that sounds like so inspirational And at the same time I feel like it's like kind of crushing too What do you all how do you all feel about that statement or I mean it seems significant to me I'm curious if it was significant to you guys I Think like obviously I resonate with that a lot because I see that like I think about it a lot like I would Think about what things that could have been different about my childhood that I could change and be different But the weird thing is like my dad probably had those same thoughts You know what I mean? Like um, his dad was like far worse than him and he tells me about it And he's he's trying to be better and I understand but when I know that my dad also had similar thoughts and like this is still the outcome like it kind of Worries me a bit like how I might turn out Mo are you worried about in there you might turn out? All the time all the time I got worried I because I do everything in my power to not be my father and I try my best to not fit into any mold But it's difficult because I feel like i'm constantly trying to adapt and I feel like i'm constantly trying to fit the needs of what I need at the moment in time, but It's difficult I I feel like sometimes I lose myself in the process And I'm very scared of that and I forget like what is the real me anymore sometimes and it's difficult because i'm afraid Of things like like like childbirth and like being a father. Can I be a father with bipolar? I don't know. It's it's difficult and those things really influence how I think a lot What do you guys think what do you guys think the real mo is I think mo is an awesome person. He's What are y'all basing that on based upon how genuine he has been to me in just a few days i've known him We spoke a little bit yesterday and he's just a great person from like the few interactions I have What makes him a great person? What about those interactions? Is um, I have a sister with bipolar depression and and he reminds me a lot of her and like my sister's like a wonderful And joyful caring person and I love her very much. So like mo exhibits a lot of those qualities. So I just I think he's great Same here. My brother my brother also has bipolar disorder and he's also the same way in that way. Yeah And uh mo my sister also has kids it's possible to be a parent with bipolar like it's harder obviously, but it's not possible I'm gonna cry that meant a lot. Thank you guys. Thank you. What did that mean to you mo? That validation is really nice That validation is super important and like I don't hear it enough. I think the worst of myself and i'm far too hard on myself and I don't like that I always think of the worst in the negative situations And it's really nice to have that validation Validation feels to me like an understatement Had what do you feel mo give us another word for it or a lot of words that are all off the mark Muted oh I think muted I feel justified. I feel like i'm uh I feel justified. I feel like i'm uh I feel right. I feel accepted I feel like i'm in a place where i'm supposed to be when I hear those things I feel like i'm doing something right And that's really it. It's it's It's hard and like i've always had love and appreciation from from other people and I do my best to spread that around As well, and I mean I call myself a great big hug because I try to be a great big hug all the time and like it's uh Sometimes you just need that reflection And so it's nice because I want to believe that what I bring out into the world is coming back to me I want to feel like i'm doing something right. And so when I get that validation it really feels like i'm doing good It means a lot when people give that validation when you have the child of childhoods that I use mo and everyone here in this chat has had and I've i'm someone who deals with like body this more this four year I think is what it's called in the sense of I didn't look through I look now growing up and I get validation externally I don't believe I don't see myself the way the world sees me even when I got compliments growing up because of how Even when I did well at home with school I didn't feel like the rewards as I said what didn't really outweigh the negatives And now when I get compliments, I can never really like feel the joy of the compliment The only time I really felt seen was when my mentor told me that he sees how much I care about people And it felt for the first time in my life that someone actually saw me for the person that I was Because growing up all I ever wanted to understand was why we hurt each other so much Why we can't spread love fully and why we can't learn to love responsibly and why we have to spread so much hate? So, let me ask you guys something. What was it like to hear mo's response to what y'all said? It was beautiful. Yeah, it was really wholesome I loved it. What was really connected to that? Well, like um, i'm glad we could like give him like that Validation, I guess well, you said it wasn't necessarily validation, but i'm glad like my experiences along with everyone else's like could help someone like Understand themselves or like understand how people view them more because I struggle with that like a lot And i've only recently started like understanding how people view me and I know how great that feels So i'm glad we could like Help mo like experience that because it's great Does anybody feel a little bit confused or left out of this exchange? I Wouldn't say I feel confused but like I because I it's just like a normal thing for me, but like i'm just very Emotionally detached in general. So like A lot of things just don't hit the same for me. Yeah, and I don't like see things the same way. So That's just like normal for me Yeah What do you think about that? Okay Um, I was I was actually just thinking like I feel like I'm don't really I don't really feel like a lot of The emotions that I think are probably there on the inside but like I feel like listening to all of you guys I feel like i'm It's almost like getting a mirror that lets me get an idea of how I probably actually do feel about things Because everything you're saying Like on some level it feels like it relates and it makes sense and i'm just like, okay These are just things I can't see for myself for whatever reason But when you guys say it it all makes sense and i'm like, okay now it all Ties together This is what party xp looks like by the way Right, so I I think this is why I think um Yeah, I mean, you know, I think individual work is really important, but I think that I can imagine that if I was speaking to any one of you one on one we would have gone down a particular rabbit hole And and you know, hopefully it would have been helpful, but I think that there's something that you guys can give each other That I can't give you Right, there's something about you know, I can try to be a mirror But I don't really know and to a certain degree I kind of know but like You know, I don't really know what it's like to grow up black Minority sure toxic masculinity sure A culture that sort of has very strict gender roles and ideas about what men should be sure You know, but I I think that's you know part of that it really is just humanity Because it's not like toxic masculinity in a particular culture. It's like masculinity as a whole Yeah, sometimes be toxic Anything um That you guys want to kind of explore further. I mean we've been at it for a little over an hour anybody have questions for each other for me or Has anybody has anybody been told you're a smart guy you're just lazy Yeah, almost weekly. Yes All the time yeah, it's not your fault you're a smart guy you're just lazy all the time What do you guys think about that? Uh, I question a lot if it's true like uh, but then like I'll notice like my accomplishments and I'll be like yeah like i'm Kind of smart and sometimes you know I'll always do It Feels like a burden of expectation Yeah And it feels like it feels like I like you know I'm not at my true potential just because i'm lazy or i'm not on my true potential because these things are holding me back But that's never the case and that's why I always think it's just such a bullshit whenever I hear that I heard that so often growing up. I hate it and it still pisses me off when I hear that And it leaves this feeling that there's always something you should be doing and makes what you do like what you're doing right now Even just relaxing you can make you feel like it's never enough and that sense of you're a smart guy You're just lazy It's a progressive and insidious killer in the sense that it makes even when you actually do work hard on something You doubt if your full effort was really even put to it And when you talk about procrastination as being the smart thing to do darker k It made me recognize that that's why gross my childhood It became more and more the thing where I procrastinate more and more and more and more as the years gone would go by Because I'd find that my emotion most my emotional state would be better the more I procrastinated Simultaneously as the work ethic because yeah I would get a good grade on some idea and would study on this because the nature to actually pay attention in class But that would leave a bad habit to grow where I don't study or I don't do the Preventative work that needs to be done because the fact that when someone tells me you're smart you're just lazy Yeah I think I think smart but lazy is the most damning diagnosis someone can get Because it leaves this idea that it's You have it within you to do it, but you're just fucking dumb So you're not doing it I mean my take on smart but lazy and and I don't know if this is going to make sense It just kind of an image popped into my mind. It's sort of like have you guys played like a we Yeah, so it's like it's like kind of like you guys are living life and everyone's telling you to use the buttons on the controller But what you really got is a we mode And you have an entire input access that like other people aren't aware of And sometimes you use the we mode the way it's supposed to be used and everyone's telling you to just hit the buttons But when you excel it's like because you're moving the we mode around And there there are just parts of you that you guys have not found yet And and so what happens is people see that you can absolutely perform at a very high level And the problem is not that you guys are dumb. The problem is that you're not able to access That which you have been able to do before Definitely and so it's it's not really like it's not that y'all are bad or dumb or lazy or anything like that It's just there's something about the way that you work That y'all don't understand yet Definitely And I would I would be really careful about you know So I I also kind of sympathize with akeen and sort of the idea of like i'm going to prove myself and then dot dot dot Right, like I want you guys to be really careful about the end then Like mo's like i'm gonna get my mental health in order and then maybe i'll have kids Like be really careful about this idea that you're gonna be ready to take the next step before you take the next step You want to be confident? In taking the next step Before you take it But I I want y'all to really tunnel down and like pay attention to what raymond said and and also what elias kind of mentioned Is that like he sort of takes the next step before he's ready like he just opens up the word document There's no amount of readiness You know you live life in a way that you're not ready to take the next step. You just take it The other last thing that I want to tell you guys I don't know if you'll know this but you guys are really really good at being thrust into situations that you're poorly prepared for Ie being life being born in life as a black person Which no one prepared you for Right Like we don't get prepared for the life that we get thrust into And like it's not just being born a black person It's just like being born now like we guys were born, you know, like with post boomer generation And it's like this is what y'all have been thrust into A world where like mental health is is like climbing at a crazy rate So when I started working with video game addicts It's not really a great term. But can you you guys know what the percentage of people who were addicted to video games was? So I started working with back back with them in 2016 worldwide. What percentage of people do you guys think were addicted to video games in 2016? At least five percent like five percent is spot on see look at that you guys are great at this What do you guys think the percentages four years later? 20 Is it still five percent? It's actually like nine percent. So i'll take the first one But there are so interestingly enough mo in iran The addiction rate is close to 20 percent No idea why That's insane. Yeah. Yeah, so like things are getting worse in a in a shocking grade But I think I you know, it's cool. Like I I think How can I say this? so First of all, any questions anyone else want anything else that that was a great question by the way mo just about You know being told you're smart lazy because it's absolutely something that and that's not I mean that has nothing to do with you guys being Black and has to do with us being on twitch. It's like what we get told Yeah, totally. Um, I I did have a question, uh, like related to the identity thing So like a lot of what you guys are saying is like you can't you feel like you can't be yourself um And it's interesting to me because all of the stuff that you're kind of being told that you have to be I Feel like I just internalize all those things and like that is what I consider myself like people say i'm supposed to be smart So i'm like, all right. I'm the smart guy people say i'm supposed to be masculine All right, then i'm gonna be the stoic guy So like I don't even know how to draw the line between people's expectations of identity and what my identity actually is I that makes me think of what dr. K talked about The analogy he used for what it's like for a trans person to be trans And he said what you can do is go into the bathroom and wear all male clothes And well, no female clothes will wear, um women's clothes wear a dress wear a bra and see how you that makes you feel You feel really uncomfortable. That's how a trans person feels you look in the mirror every single day I think of when people gave me those compliments. They told me those things about myself I felt really uncomfortable because I just didn't feel like that's who I was Because the reality that I was living didn't feel like a resemblance of things I was being told in the way other people perceive me and i'm not even i'm someone who like has a really balanced energy between masculine and femininity and I find that my Experience has been that the more masking that people made me feel that I had to be the more uncomfortable I was especially the more I tried to force myself to be that person Especially in dating is like the feeling that you have to be hyper masking to get women to be into you It was a thing that I struggled for a very long time until I became 17 I was really having a proper dialogue with women in my life and you'll understand that The best thing I can do for myself would be a better version of myself That makes a lot of sense here, what do you guys think about uh, you know akin talking about like how do you know where you exist when When you sort of form your opinions about yourself based on expectations like you become the expectation that's what you think you are Is that something that you guys have experienced more or struggled with I have like a lot recently. Um, but like before like Like like within the past year i've been like kind of working on it and trying to figure out like What kind of is my place in the world who I am like what my dynamic is and like a friend group and everything and uh, It was fine until like I think my therapist basically told me don't worry about that Like if like the people around you didn't want to be around you like You don't have to worry about like if they didn't want to be around like they just wouldn't so you don't have to worry about Like how you fit in and where your place is you can just find it because no one Hopefully knows like how exactly like other people perceive them and what they expect, you know And I was talking to like my really close friend Spencer and we were talking about like the idea of like who we are in identity he was like trying to explain to each other like Who we think each other are but when we did we both realized like we just have vastly different ideas of who we think The other person is so like we no one really knows kind of just a guessing game Does anybody have a sense so it sounds like Um, eli's done a lot of kind of exploration and sort of discovering who he is I'm curious. Does anybody else have a sense of like do you guys feel like you know who you are? I feel I feel pretty confident in my self-image sometimes but it's difficult when it doesn't mesh well with other people's Sense of who I am as a person I feel like I conflict a lot with others when someone sees me coming from a traditional african family then But i'm not so traditional myself then I feel like that's where I struggle with a lot. It's just how did you find out who you are? My lord, um through a lot, um through going to university through meeting and dating so many different people um through experiencing different traumatic events in my life through You know so many different experiences that I think shaped myself including my bipolar disorder. Like I I think Someone asked me a question recently where Would you want more or less pain in your childhood? But I think without that pain, I wouldn't have been the same person than I am now um So it's difficult. It's it's I think I would say I truly discovered myself At the time I found my bipolar disorder That's that's where I would kind of like tie it all in Um Yeah, so, you know, I hope the takeaway there isn't the road to finding yourself is to get diagnosed with bipolar disorder No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, i'm giving you shit, man So I I think I think I think the the key thing there is that you know so I think for people who are trying to figure out who you are, I think we we can hear from Kind of elai and mo is that like first of all and also raymond too Because I get the sense that he's getting a real handle on it now because I hope you guys hear that these are incredibly individual journeys and like What the fuck did you guys expect when it comes to finding out who your Unique identity is you think that there's a standard formula for it? Like the whole point is that it's individual Right, like it's your identity. It's no one else's identity So why is anyone else's story like you can learn how to write poetry and talk to women you can get diagnosed with adhd? And and start to like, you know have a job and work in board rooms or you can get diagnosed with bipolar disorder Like those are all equally good answers And I think I can you know, the challenge is that that doesn't really give you a way forward because I get I guess on some Level what i'm hearing between reading the lines between your question Is like how do I find out who I am because you've noticed? That your sense of self Is based it's built upon The expectations of others But that's not who you are Right, and then you're like then how do I find who I am? So maybe this is where I can teach you guys a particular meditation practice um and so we'll do that in a second, but If it's okay with you guys, i'd like to just try to summarize a little bit about what I heard today Is that okay? Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely So I just need a second Which now I wonder whether that's going to be like an emote that is racist towards indian people So that's what I learned today, thank you guys very much we'll see you all next time Uh, so let me just think about this All right, so like I'm gonna start with All right, this may not make a whole lot of sense because i'm just looking at random things that I jotted down So i'm going to start with it shouldn't be this way Like that's where it starts Right that you guys were each thrust into life With various amounts of debuffs in on hard mode and it just it just shouldn't be this way agreed and And and you know like like that you guys were so I I don't know that you guys were really allowed I mean, it's almost like you guys, you know rolled the stats of a fighter and you were given like a wizard staff and a set of robes and then you were like Like told to live life and this is where like identity and expectation Is so accurate. Oh god, that's so accurate Right, and and so it's like kind of hard because you guys are like sitting there on like level one and you're like What the fuck is this stick like? you know You know so this kind of goes back to the idea of like, you know playing the game with a wiimote instead of a regular controller and Being called smart but lazy because it's like everyone's you know, you're running around with the stick and you're you know Mealing people with it when the stick is designed to cast spells and you're just you're a different character and like you were born to use a sword And and so I I think that there's a lot of There's a lot of like expectation that was thrust on you guys everything from religious expectations around what mental health is To really kind of invalidating and I don't really like that word But like really just you guys being not allowed to be the person that you are And what i'm hearing from many of you guys is that you guys had to fight For each inch of ground like i'm thinking like i'm imagining y'all's lives is like world war two trench warfare where it's like every Foot that you gain is like gained with like blood and sweat Yes You know, and and it sounds like eli's mom is super supportive, but it doesn't sound like she started that way You know that was like like you guys have to carve out your space in the world Um, and whether that's holding back the way that you talk around your peers because they literally wouldn't understand you or Trying to tell your dad like what you want to do in life and like he tells you that you become a waste of everything That all of his sweat and toil if you choose to be the person that you are like what the fuck man Right or For for people in your life who have been very very lazy in terms of their invalidation of you The lazy ones just called you smart but lazy Right they didn't even they didn't even like take the time of day to to invalidate you as a person in a very specific and thoughtful way That are just like you're so fucking lazy Why can't you just be better? Just be better at life. Akin. Stop just sucking. Just be better bro Right and and so then I kind of get to this like, you know I think we kind of get into this idea of like building your identity and the expectations that people have expectations that people put on you whether it's playing a game and like not being able to use voice chat or You know, i've been having this question in my mind Like I don't even know can I mean I assume people can tell that you're black based on your voice over voice chat Yes Yeah, sometimes more about your cadence. It's about the cadence of which you speak and that's part of caricature as well And you already understand like I think you understand that When you when the caricature has been perpetuated for such a long time They will immediately assign the cadence in which you speak from that caricature to you Yeah, so like, you know, it comes back to this sense of like, you know Be like not being able to be yourself in the world Which you know starts with your parents and even like even like manifests in the gaming community And so so then I get the sense of of you know, I think we see a couple of things that come up The first is exhaustion That you guys just have to do shit that like other people don't have to do or or maybe other people do have to do it Maybe that's unfair to other people But i'm just getting a layer of additional effort like let's forget about other people but that you have to do Right that like I you know when I log on to discord, I really don't think about You know what how I sound and I don't have to spend time thinking about that Um, and you know when I the only time I spend thinking about is when i'm having fun Like when I start talking talking like texan, you know, we can do that and You know, so you can you can play a game of doters for all the legal agents y'all play legal agents legal agents is great eren de deeper and and so So like that's been my experience of my voice and it's been an overwhelmingly positive thing And so i'm hearing you guys just really so there's like this idea of like who you are and who the world wants you to be And and walking that tightrope is just exhausting And and at the worst it's like painful and and really like I I i'm really glad that mo took the time to dig in and And think about what validating means because it's not validating. It's like he used the word justified Yeah, what? Justified what justified his fucking existence? Is a person and who he is and not to be labeled or like You guys were like, yeah, man, you deserve to like be on this earth and we're okay with the person that you are That's what that was. It's not validation That's justification of existence Which what I hear from you guys is not something that you'll get on a daily basis And and this also I think does race have a piece to play here. Absolutely I think you guys really you know drew the short end of the stick In the world that we live in today And at the same time, I think that's also something that is not unique to black people Right. I mean, I think that smart but lazy people who don't deserve to be alive is like pretty much describes Our community and that's who we are And And that's tough. It's like it's fucking exhausting and so then I think now we get into the part that I think is really really tricky, which is like You know this idea that you're a lazy lazy piece of shit and that you have to prove it And i'd be careful because there's a part of me that really like that rubs me the wrong way when you guys try to like Prove it quote unquote. I don't even know what I mean by that, but that's what I feel Because I think what you're trying to prove is not the person that you are But the person that people want you to be want you to be And I think you guys got to be really careful about that Right, if if it's the person that you want to be fine But if it's if it's like proving to yourself that you can be that which people expect you to be You got to be careful and i'm basically talking mostly to vikene here But also all of you guys but like, you know, that's who i'm kind of thinking about I think his statements really made me kind of think about that. I think all we all face that too And so then the question becomes how do you figure out like who you are? And it's absolutely an individual journey And I I think the main thing that i'm hearing is that the main different the main common thread between And i'm just going to kind of reference elai raymond and moe because I think that's where I heard heard it is they paid attention To their experiences And they paid attention to their experiences with their own eyes and with their own ears and with their own feelings Instead of interpreting their experiences through the lens of stigma society and expectation And it's I hear this shit and it it still boggles my mind every time I hear it But like getting diagnosed as mentally ill is like a positive thing Thing but raymond felt it was liberating and like You know moe getting like this diagnosis felt like he started the process of understanding who he is Which doesn't mean that mental illness is like a good thing, but I just it's weird and I don't really know how to make sense of it But I I do think I mean i've talked to When I used to do consult psychiatry So this is like a psychiatrist who works in a hospital like in a medical hospital And I like worked on the oncology floor and people would say this weird shit like cancer is the best thing that ever happened to me I'm like dude, what are you seeing? Like how can that possibly be? And I think like, you know in a gamer analogy, there's like there's xp to be gained there, right? And it's really about learning and paying attention and like thinking through your own journey um and And then at the end of the day, I think though that that identity and now we come to our meditation exercise identity can be found I I do believe that that there's an individual journey But there are also some practices that you can get a sense of like who your truest form of identity is Because the the people in the east sort of had this clear idea that like our identity is something very pure They use the word divine And and that at the core of our being like if you slough off All of the expectations and all of the bullshit what you see is what people saw in mo and what mo felt Which is something like pure and beautiful and divine And it doesn't matter what the color of your skin is. It doesn't matter what diagnosis you have It doesn't matter what you wear. It doesn't matter how you sound but there's just something incredibly like pure and perfect underneath all of it I believe that And so then the question becomes how do we find that? Well now i'm going to teach you guys a particular meditation technique Let's go That's fine brother, okay about that time brooze So this is something i've taught before but I I think you know, I'm I sometimes reteach things So I I don't know if you guys have Encountered this but I want you all to sit up straight I want you to close your eyes So i'd also encourage you guys to adopt um Bhairavamudra, which is this So right hand and left you can put your thumbs together And then go ahead and put it in your lap so your arms are kind of like a loose circle And then close your eyes And just feel the person that you are for a second just notice yourself Right so notice your body maybe a particular facial expression Maybe a crinkling of the eyebrows a slight smile maybe a little bit more of a bigger smile Just notice who you are And this is going to sound kind of weird but like where do you feel yourself You know, where is that you miss like where do you exist Maybe kind of a weird question doesn't make sense. Not a big deal if it doesn't you may also notice your thoughts So take a moment to notice that weird ass thing that we call the mind Just all the random thoughts that it generates And sometimes how you feel like those thoughts become truth And that the thoughts can be devastating And that at time those thoughts become you or you become thoughts you merge with them I'm a bad person. I'm a stupid person You know there i'm a waste of space i'm a lazy piece of shit And now I want you guys to look for a second like do can you find the lazy piece of shit within you? Like in this moment, can you find the part of yourself that is a lazy piece of shit? Look for it, where is it? What does it what does it look like? What does it feel like? Can anybody find it? I'm gonna ask you guys to speak I can find you Okay, so so it sounds like Eli can some people can't Akeen what about you? Maybe a little maybe a little we'll take it right so Eli Can you tell us what the lazy piece of shit feels like to you? The first thing that came to mind The first thing that came to mind was the child So I have this thing in my head constantly since i've been a kid was I feel like the kid that I was the only thing that I really needed was a hug and in my mind The person that came to mind was the kid that was scared of the world and I was crying That was scared of the world and I was crying and I think that is that part of myself, okay It's great. Thanks for sharing So now what I want you guys to do is keep go back to eyes closed So feel that circuit Between your arms And kind of the linking Notice your breath And I want you to notice the inhalation And the exhalation preferably through the nose but exhalation through the mouth is okay if you really feel like it And now without holding your breath I want you to zero in on the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation So Notice that there's a discrete inhalation and a discrete exhalation and then there's something in between I'm going to give you guys a few seconds to just breathe and notice You And now as you find that space between inhalation and exhalation put yourself fully into it And then in that space Try to notice who you are Who exists in the space between inhalation and exhalation So We'll practice for about 30 seconds 60 let's give it a minute You You You Now let your awareness slowly return To january 8 2020 Let your name return to you let your location return to you when you're ready slowly open your eyes You Would anyone like to share some reflections or their experience of the practice Yeah, it felt really chill um, I guess The point where you were asking um The moment between the inhale and the exhale it was like a parabola and there was like a range between um Sometimes it was closer to the inhale sometimes it was closer to the out exhale and Also when you um asked me Uh, who was that person at that moment in time? It was just a guy breathing. It wasn't myself. It wasn't raymond It wasn't spaz and it wasn't um, it was just a guy breathing. That's That's how it felt. I liked it Thanks, dr. K Did other people sort of have a similar experience different experience I've been having um, i've been meditating recently especially I've been after I started feeling better way before all the Black lives matter protests have been done recently I've been having this Disassociated feeling from the madness of the world being able to recognize that i'm a being above and outside of that And I feel that again very strongly right now, especially after this entire stream I didn't even recognize how much better I would feel after talking about all these things And I guess getting them out of my head without realizing how much of a problem they've been for me For such a long time And I feel a lot of peace in this moment I I feel anxiety in that in between in that moment in between that inhale on the exhale I feel scared I feel I just I don't know. It's I don't know if I like that in between moment. I like the inhaling and the exhaling because it's there it's like concrete and it's like constant but I it's it's that pausing that moment between that scares me. I think That's completely fair man, it is it can be a very scary place to be for some people Doesn't mean you're doing it wrong Doesn't necessarily mean you need to continue doing that practice but thanks for sharing Kind of hard to explain like You're muted like the the shift like like a transmission oh whoops, yeah. Yeah, go for it. We can hear you now Maybe just speak up Oh, you did it again It's kind of party Maybe bring the phone closer to you Yeah, I can I could pick it up is that better yeah great All right, um, so for me I kind of saw like the shift like And like shifting gears and then like the breath like returning um and exhaling Um, and it just like I was able to like just reflect on myself a lot and how I view myself Which it was a really like positive experience Because I think I've gotten a lot better like I'm a more happy person. I feel better about myself And so it's kind of just helping like reinforce that fact and I really enjoyed it. So, thank you Okay, you don't have to speak but you know, you're it's kind of weird I mean I don't want you to feel pressured to speak if you don't want to but Um, I guess Uh It at that moment of like Between inhale and exhale um And like you asking what? Do you feel about yourself? Or like who do you feel you are at that moment? and I guess the only image that came to my mind was just like a very I don't know. Just I guess I just felt like very grand and like powerful and I don't know if that's like I mean that's kind of the thing that I always wonder about uh in terms of identity like I'd persistently have that perception of myself, but then I also feel like That is also comes a lot from What people have generally always expected from me? So i'm always like is that actually how I feel about myself or is that just like me trying to fit a role? So I just always go back into that question in my mind, but I don't know Yeah, so Akeen I I think you have a lot of teasing apart to do Right So the way that I would interpret what you said and we can go through and kind of interpret everyone's different responses, but Let's start with you and go in reverse order So in your case, I think that you've always had a sense of for lack of better terms your divinity The problem is that your the expectations that people place upon you and the expectations that you place upon yourself Turn that pure divinity into Brandness They hijack it Like because here's the thing is they've expected great things from you and you felt greatness within you And so you've just lumped those two things together where they actually need to be completely separate And it's it's going to be a hard road But like it really involves teasing apart that which you feel about yourself from that which you expect yourself to be Okay, but I'd encourage you to keep doing it I think before that was julian Yeah, and julian you had said What ron megan Yeah, so it was just like um it was a moment for me to like be like very insightful about like how I view myself and and um re-emphasize like the All right, how do I say this? Um Kind of like Kind of Cosine those like in my own mind like so I thought like generally like nice things about myself and like what I know from like what people told me and everything. Um, and I was kind of just like reaffirming those feelings Just while I was just thinking And just trying to like I could feel like just happier and I could feel I felt like more complete You know, yeah good. So I I think just let yourself continue to like Drink the water from that well Right and and like as people have other expectations and you have thoughts about yourself and like whether it's positive or negative Just like don't let go of that source You know and let it just continue to like, you know water your fields and like whatever other nature analogy you want Um, thank you Mo in your case, I think it's completely fine for you to feel anxious so Sometimes raw experiences of self can be incredibly anxiety provoking and untethering I'm, not sure that you had a raw experience of self, but that absolutely happens So I think in your case you may just want to have a practice that really anchors you to the present and anchors like is Like so this is a more abstract or untethering practice It's actually designed to like like remove yourself From all of the things that you think you are and just find kind of a pure part of you and I think the interesting thing mo is that I think a lot of your growth has been In finding anchors with your life And I don't think that you're ready to let go of those yet, which I don't think you should because they're good anchors for you So if you need to stick with the inhalation and exhalation by all means stick with the inflation and exhalation keep going Keep walking the road that you're on because it feels to me like it's on, you know, the right direction You can absolutely have kids one day It's like I mean, I know a lot of people who have bipolar disorder and have children Some of their kids struggle too, but like they're they're happy stories Like i'm thinking about one person in particular who kid had a lot of problems. They had a lot of problems They're both doing fantastic now Um, and now they have grandkids So we're doing great that's beautiful. Thank you doctor. It's like it absolutely happens, man um You know elai, I think I think it's amazing that you've done You know when I heard you kind of talk about that Child within yourself. I think it's clear to me that you've done a lot of growth and you've done a lot of exploration and that you can sort of feel the some scar for lack of a better term of like You know the piece of shit within you And and to recognize that like that piece of shit is not who you are but is a piece of you that needs you To take care of it And I think it's sort of aligned with what you were saying earlier about like teaching yourself to be like the father that you needed um, interestingly enough my my teacher taught me a very specific practice to do that which was sort of like the search my teacher Gave me this practice for the search for inner guru So to like find a teacher within you so that you need no external teachers So I think you should just do whatever whatever shit you're doing and you've been doing just keep at it, bro So I think it's like it sounds like it's a it's a good um Journey and then uh raimond. I think you know when I teach this practice And be careful because this is going to be loaded. Um What I hope what I imagine people will experience or what I hope people will experience is actually the closest to what you described Like this sense of the parabola and the up and down doesn't mean that it's right That's not the point of meditation But I of all of the people in this group I would encourage you to continue doing this practice the most Because I think that just something about the way that you described it is like Yeah, maybe I mean you got all y'all can do it everyone except for mo But you know, I I think that in terms of just the way that you described it I think it's the closest description to What I think you will gain more from and it's not to say that other people can't do it or won't gain a lot And you definitely don't want to make a decision after like, you know, three minutes of a meditation practice, right? So but but I think just the way that you lost yourself in the parabola is something that let me put it this way Other people who I have taught this practice who have described something similar have gone on to gain a lot from it That's the way I should describe it. It says nothing about the rest of you guys It just means that I've heard other people describe that and then they they've gotten a lot out of continued practice So overall guys, thank you so much for coming on and and you know sharing y'all's perspectives um I it's it's been amazing to hear your story and also like sad to be honest to hear what you guys have had to deal with um And yeah, just tiring tiring more than anything else and i'm glad that y'all are a part of the community and like I think it's been amazing to to listen to you guys and i'm grateful that y'all have Decided to come on here today and try to share a little bit about yourselves and help Help us out Thank you, dr. Kay as well Thank you so much for having us. Thank you so much for having us. Yeah, man. It's a lot of work guys. We really appreciate it I really appreciate it And good luck to you as well I'm gonna hang up. Thank you Bye bye Okay All right So that was fun Helpful I hope that was helpful to you guys as well. Yeah, man, it's tough, dude It's tough life ain't easy it's hard game hard game to play Really hard for some people Um Yeah, I think it's been tough But you know those guys are strong and I I felt Yeah, I just have to process for a second It surprises me how It surprises me like how individual our journeys can be and how Common our problems and struggles are like we can all share the same challenges and there's a lot to Be gained from each other and at the same time it's so interesting to see like how you know different people's growth and progress is so wildly Um You know how It's so similar and then everyone's journey is so unique and I think it's really cool when like You know, I guess i'm just sort of envisioning a couple years ago. I I went to climb mount kilimanjaro And it was cool because like, you know, you you meet certain people and then you hike with them for a while And you're on the same road side by side for like two days And then you know, they decide to leave early the next morning and then you're kind of like by yourself again And both of you guys are on your own journey and you can really share it and resonate with someone and really be with someone For some time and then you have to go off on your own path And and just hearing those guys that's kind of what I felt like it just reminded me of kilimanjaro and like That each of these people are walking their own path But like sometimes, you know the steps look really similar And I hope that you guys learn something or gain something from hearing about their path and and maybe you can You know walk yours a little bit better or even just keep walking after hearing theirs And it's it's cool i'm i'm glad that you know, they came on and i'm glad that you guys show up to listen and um Yeah