 Oh, no, this is good. This is great. Okay. Perfect. So now I'm going to ask you guys, so a big question is how do I figure out my dharma? So people are asking that. And so I want you guys to tell me, we're going to start with what do you guys think my dharma is? Your dharma is to help other people figure out their dharma. Okay. What do you guys think? Jake, you're typing with... Sorry, my bad. So what do you guys think? Is my dharma to help other people figure out their dharma? I mean, you also have a duty to your family, right? At this point in your life, like to raise your children, to be a good husband to your wife. Absolutely. Okay. So you know what, we're going to do this. And then someone else said something like before the N-bomb started flying. Somebody said something about... Do you guys remember what that other dude said? Because that was like, I thought a pretty good answer. No. Okay. That's okay. So what other people do? Other people think that there's like an additional dharma? We've talked a lot about AOE healing, right? And you've talked before about your particular mission to help people who have suffered from Because you feel like other psychologists and particularly experts in the field have not been able to address the problem. Hey, sorry. Can you guys hear me? Yep. Okay, finally. My mic was malfunctioning. Yeah, I was the one speaking with you about dharma earlier. And what did you say? So I think it's essentially, again, I'm really new to all the vocabulary, especially with you. I don't really know much about like Hindu spiritualism, but it's effectively like your greater sense of purpose in life. Your meaning, your sort of spiritual essence is what I'm... Yep, sure. Great. Very good inference. So you said something else. Like what do you think my dharma is? So I think that you have this place in society now where we're encountering a lot of problems right now, especially with people being like very hedonistic in an irrational way, people being very, not nihilistic, but just like irrationally considering like all the opportunities they have in life and not really being capable of dealing with the modern world. And you're sort of here to help people sort that out because you've done it yourself. How to deal with the modern world and its lack of meaning. Okay, so now we're going to check in with Twitch chat. What do you guys think? Do you guys think these guys have a good sense of my dharma? Can we get like a thumbs up if you think it's... Okay. Talk about grammar Nazis. Okay. I know. Yeah. So then the question becomes like, how do you guys think I got into this dharma? Like how did I discover my dharma? Well, going in line with what I was saying, I think you have a lot of personal experience with this and you'd like to mirror it onto other people. It's just a natural empathy response. So you struggled a lot, I'm assuming in your earlier life, you've talked about your struggles in college and such. And so overcoming those experiences was really fulfilling and you want other people to experience it. It's kind of like how XQC, everyone likes him when he reacts to videos and you like sharing your ideas, your thoughts, your joys with other people at the same way. So that's my idea. Yeah. So, okay. So you're saying that at the beginning there was personal experience, right? Current dharma. And that these are related. And that I had a person, right? So in the past, I had a person who was like, I'm going to be a dharma teacher. So in the past. But how did I, so at what point, like, how did I get from personal experience to my current dharma? So like, I started playing video games, like I failed out, I almost failed out of college, you know, when I was like 18. And it's been, that was 19 years ago. So like, how did I get from here to here? You're spot on dude, that like my personal experience is central to what I do now. So I think that maybe we could conceptualize this as your personal experience plus the recognition of a need for sort of a hole to be filled. Okay. So I agree. So rec, oh God. Okay. I can, okay. So recognition of a need to be filled, right? So how does that happen? How does this happen? So what with you, you said something more along the lines of your parents or your dad sort of kicked you to go to India? Yeah. Well there. Yeah. So was it that sort of like support structure that kicked you and made you do that sort of the start of your journey to transition? Absolutely. Right. So that's still under personal experience though, right? That has nothing to do with recognizing that the modern world has a lack of meaning. You with me? Yeah. You're spot on that that was crucial to my journey, but that was part of like making me who I am. So then was it the meditation itself? Nope. Right. So meditation falls under this too. So you guys are saying that like, okay, now I'm trying to help other people. That's my dharma. So the AOE healing lack of like someone said something about how young men are directionless in life right now. And so the mind harm must help them. But how did I get from meditating in India to all of this stuff? Right. So you can even say med school, Harvard, Andy, et cetera. Right. Those are all personal experiences. How this is, this is the key thing. You're y'all are spot on. So I'm sorry. I really don't understand the question. Sorry. You asked in particular about how your dharma has changed and how you're. No. So this is good. I'm glad you got it. Cause this is what everyone is missing when they think about dharma. Right. So I want you guys to think about, so I was this person, right? This is me. Like five years ago, I was. Oh, I know. I know. Okay. So for one, I'm sure that you absorbed a lot of media and like, you know, you're not absorbed a lot of media and like from there, you sort of derive like a lot of yourself. So like maybe you identified with characters in certain games, maybe you identified with like certain motifs and movies and stuff. And then like from there, you sort of derive like, Oh, this is who I ought to be in life. You know, maybe I want to be like this healer character. I want to be like this. I don't know. Nope. That's actually incorrect. Right. So it's a weird question. I'm not trying to get you guys to feel stupid. I'm really not, but it's, it's something that we've never talked about on stream before. It's something that's a gaping hole when it comes to dharma. So I'll tell you guys the moment that I realized that this is a need that needs to be fulfilled. So I did, I posted on Reddit and I did an AMA like back in 2019 or 18. I forget now because it's blurry. I think September of 2018. And after that AMA, I decided, Oh, there's a need that needs to be fulfilled. So what do you guys think? Like how does doing an AMA result in my recognition that a need has to be fulfilled? You got a lot of response to that AMA in both itself and in personal messages afterwards. And you realize that, so you've talked about your experience with a mentor of yours saying that the need to play video games is similar to the need to get a tattoo. And that didn't make any sense to you. So, and on, on then that combined with the fact that gamers seem to seem to mostly be searching for some sort of help. Okay. So spot on. Right. So like, what do you guys think? So from the other people who heard Capture God's answer, what do you guys think is the most important thing out of everything he said in terms of helping me discover my karma? The amount of people reaching out to you and your, your, your sight into how many people need help. So this is very important. This is karma. Okay. So karma is karma, which is the principle of cause and effect. So in its simplest form is if I throw a ball up in the air, the ball is going to come down. That's just all that karma says. But the big thing that most people are missing when it comes to their dharma is that dharma is not a sole endeavor. If no one up voted the AMA and it just never got any traction, we would literally not be here right now. The world has to give me something to let me know what it wants. You guys get that? Like without this critical step, if we take this away, this never gets connected. These two things never get connected. This has to happen. In addition to that, isn't there the the Recful interview, which showed to you that a lot of people on Twitch specifically wanted to hear what you had to say? Absolutely. Right. So just think about this for a second. So if I'm sitting at home and I'm trying to figure out my dharma, how successful am I going to be? Probably very unsuccessful. But why? Well, because, you know, it's this principle of karma that you're talking about now. You're not getting positive outreach, not getting any feedback that'll allow you to change anything. Yes. So now I'm going to give you guys another question. So if I'm a doctor and I'm working in the emergency room, how do I know what my dharma on that shift is? What's my dharma on that shift? To help other people. So serve other people abstractly? Like, am I sitting there and I'm saying, OK, I'm a specific patient that you're assigned. And how do I know? Like, how do I figure out my dharma, Huuchy? Like by their responses, by what they tell you, somebody comes in and needs help. Exactly, Jake. Exactly. So you guys have to understand that dharma is not a sole pursuit, right? Dharma is about what the world tells you it needs. So if someone comes in after a motor vehicle accident, that is a different dharma from someone coming in because they're having an allergic reaction. My dharma depends on what the world sends my way. And this is the thing that everyone is currently missing because I haven't explained it because we just haven't gotten that far. But it's amazing that we're able to get here because I get thousands of questions about how do I find my dharma? And I'm trying to I don't know how to explain to people besides doing something like this that you guys understand. So my dharma is clear. But who discovered my dharma? Was it something that I found out, like, by myself? The world discovered your dharma for you. Yes. Right. That my dharma is a meeting between who I am and what the world asks of me. That's dharma. So if you think about Rosa Parks or MLK or Mahatma Gandhi. Right. These are people that were just like, like, or relatively like normal people, because at the end of the day, we're all normal people. And then the world shows up and asks something of you. And then the question is, are you prepared? To actually do it. Yeah. So what if you're not prepared? So then what do you got? Where do you think you should start? Now, let's go back in time and you guys be my teacher and you take 18 year old me who's failing out of college and I come to you guys and I say, what is my dharma and what do you tell me? It's impossible to know. Honestly, can I pose a question because I don't know if I fully understand the concept here. Sure. Do you think that like your purpose in life, your dharma is what you call it, is necessarily dependent on what society demands of you and like what people like? And the reason I say this is because so many of the people that I admire and look up to, especially in history, they seem to be like totally independent from their time. Right. So like so many great artists and stuff, they weren't making art to make other people happy. They made it to make their like own souls fulfilled. I don't know. Yeah, that's a great question. So I think that that I don't think that your dharma has to cater to what society wants. I think that in that moment, they were doing their dharma because actually what society needed, especially if you look at something like art, the whole point about why important art is important is because it changes and pushes society forward. Right. It's not accepting where society is. It's pushing things forward. If we think about what my dharma is, it's pushing things forward and how it doesn't have to be grandiose because you guys like, you know, I'm glad someone mentioned this because at the end of the day, if I had to rank my dharma, this is how I do it. Right. And then this is two plus. So what about the people that the hundreds of millions of people that really are not going to have a huge impact on the world? So that's the thing is people are confusing dharma with like grand things, but dharma is not grandiose. And that's just because the examples that we use tend to be grandiose, like Rosa Parks or MLK or whatever. Right. Like AOE healing. But you guys have to understand that like that doesn't my first dharma is to my family. And the only reason that my dharma got big is because the world asked it of me. But at the end of the day, like this and this, if we take this out, we delete all this. That's enough. Right. It's enough for me to just be a doctor and try to help people who come into my office with depression every day. It's enough to like raise my kids and raise them to be decent human beings. It's enough. That's something that you're going to have to figure out on your own. But I don't think I don't want to keep butting in. But I'm just like very concerned that this all seems like too much like adherent to society in a way that I think could be really negative. For instance, you put like family up there is number one. I don't have a very strong connection to my family. And I think disconnecting myself from my family has actually been like one of the best things that I've had to do in my life. So instead of like developing my sense of meaning from other people around me, ask of me, I think rationally like about like, oh, what are the things I enjoy to do most in life? What do I think people need the most in life? And I don't let other people make that feeling for me. I sort of like derive it on my own using like logic and reason. Is that like, I don't know. You might be saying the same thing, but phrasing it differently. Just tell me about it. Yeah. So I think that's a great thing, because here's the thing. I had a loving family, right? Digital dystopia, you did not. So like how many people out there do you think have a loving family? Like what percent of people? It depends, obviously, on the location. But I mean, like half the people are divorced now, right? I'm pretty sure like it's way less than what it should. So we talked earlier about how my personal experience helps me do A.O.E. healing at this point. So when it comes to someone who has a broken family, who do you think has a better karma in order to help them? Me or you? I don't know. I really can't answer. You. I mean, you, because you're more established in your in a situation in your life where you can help them comfortably. Right. So I think that if digital dystopia thinks that like, so I'm not saying that family should be at the top of everyone's Dharma, that's just what's at the top of mine, because I've chosen to have a family. And in your case, your experiences are different. And if you don't want to live based on society, what society is telling you, I think that's fantastic. I think that's part of your Dharma. I think part of your Dharma is to figure out, OK, for all the people out there for whom society's formulas do not work, I think that's fantastic. And if you do not work, you can be an example to those people. Yeah, you can help those people. It's not Dharma that's bothering me. It's karma, because you were telling me you have to derive your Dharma from like what other people are demanding, what other people are telling you. And sometimes what other people demand is wrong, and it's not actually good and right. Absolutely. Right. So when Rosa Parks was sitting at the front of the bus, sorry, I don't know how much you guys know about like the American Civil Rights Movement. Rosa was telling her, you got to go sit at the back of the bus because you're black. That's what society was asking her. What did she do? Yeah, she sat in the front because obviously it was better for society in the long term, and she rationally. So she decided that I'm going to say I'm going to flip the middle finger to society and I'm going to do what I want, because I think it is your I think it is right. And what I'm hearing you say, digital dystopia, is that like you are doing that same thing. You are not trusting society. You are not trusting society's values and you are figuring out your own way forward. And that is an incredibly important journey, not only for yourself, but I suspect for other people. Should karma show up one day and someone is going to ask you for help? You're going to open your mouth one day and people are going to be listening. And then someone's going to be like, hey, man, I really liked what you said. Can you tell me a little bit about like how you learned, how you figured that out? That's your karma. So your suggestion to people who are in very toxic situations with their family or with their loved ones or whatever is to just focus on themselves and be as morally right as they can be. And the people in their life will eventually come along. No, no, no, no. I mean, so I agree with everything except for the last part, right? So doing your dharma, if you're in a family situation that sucks, I think it is important to do your dharma in that family situation. But this is where doing your dharma in the family situation doesn't mean repairing the family. Sometimes like you have a dharma to yourself and you have a dharma to your family. And there's a difference between doing the best that you can and then letting them go if they're not willing to meet you halfway and like sacrificing everything that you are to make your family happy, which I don't think is a good idea. Right. So I think doing your dharma is not about a particular outcome. It's like, OK, I gave so my family is fucked up and I did the best that I could. To like really try to make a relationship with them. But my dad is narcissistic and my mom has borderline personality disorder. And they're just not willing to meet me halfway. Then you let them go and you go on and you live your own life and you find someone that you care about and you build your own family of people that you're loyal to. You cannot fix your family dynamics and it is not dharma is not about an outcome. It's about your actions. Right. Did you do enough? And if you did enough, you should be able to walk away without regret. You walk away with peace. You say, you know, I did the best that I could. But like it takes it takes two to make a relationship work. And dharma is about doing your part. And once you walk away for the next five years, you tell yourself, OK, on Christmas and their birthday, I'm going to call them and I'm going to send them a card. And you set that up in your mind and say, that's what I'm going to do. And over the next five years, you do that thing and you stick to your dharma and they never call you on your birthday and they never send you a card. On year six, done. You did your part. And you walk away with it peacefully. That makes sense. I have a slight question, and this is going to be. Controversial. Go for it. So. So what about how do you know that your dharma is right? So the situation I'm thinking of is a person who. Believes that their dharma is to convince the world that races should not be equal, something like that, right, which is going to be very controversial. But somebody could potentially believe that and believe it very strongly and believe that that is their dharma. So how can you tell if that's the wrong thing to be doing? Great question. So. Let me put it to you this way. When whenever we think things, we think we're right, right? Like so like, I wouldn't say that. OK, so I think you're in the minority. But generally speaking, when our mind comes to a conclusion, most people respond to that conclusion as if it's correct. Like when I walk to the bathroom, I have the assumption that if I pull the handle on the flush, that the toilet will flush. And I operate through my day in most of the time. Like my mind is like giving me like hypotheses, which I just sort of trust to be correct. And most human beings think that their thoughts are correct. I'd say it depends, but in general, I'll follow you and say, yeah. Yeah. So I think it's good for you to say that you don't think that way, because but I think that's rare. I think if you just like go on Reddit and you post an opinion, most of the responses that you're going to get on Reddit are not going to have like some degree of self-reflection. They're going to have people telling you that you're wrong and they're right. Right. And to be clear, my question is oriented towards the direction of how do you convince those people who you believe are clearly in the wrong, but they believe they're clearly in the. That OK, so I their Dharma correct because it applies to them. Like if they honestly believe that they should pursue this like racist ideal, is that actually their Dharma, even though it's objectively bad for society? But they believe it's correct. You're changing the question, capture God. The question that you asked is if I believe something, how do I know that my Dharma is correct? That's different from if I believe if someone else believes something is correct. How do I convince them otherwise? Those are two separate questions, right? No, I don't think they are. I think they are. So I think figuring out your Dharma is very different from convincing someone else of their Dharma. One is subjective. One relates to another human being. Do you with me? Um, I think it depends on how you classify ideas. Chat, stop bullying you. If you treat all ideas as equal to begin with and then evaluate them sort of depending on their validity, their. The result they give. Then you can come to different, different conclusions than if you try to take a moral stance. OK, I don't know what you just said. You just lost me, but I'm going to try to. Yeah, I'm not sure either. Sorry. So this is what I understood your first question to be. Let's say that I believe I have a Dharma and that that Dharma is negative or positive. How do I know whether like my Dharma, how do I objectively reflect upon whether my Dharma is correct or incorrect? That's what I understood your first question to be. It wasn't about changing anyone's mind about anything. It was about like introspection and figuring out your own Dharma. Right, I guess it's it's that there are different sets of ideas which appear to be self evident if you believe in them. And if you fall within one of these sets of ideas, then you can believe one thing to be morally right. Sure. Whereas another set of ideas will do that thing to be morally abhorrent. Fine. So capture God, the question that so you're you're talking about something that sounds a little bit philosophical. My main question for you is I heard two separate questions. One is about within you and one is you interacting with another human being. Whatever constructive ideas or whatever you want to talk about is fine. But like, do you see that those are fundamentally different things that what I figure out for myself and be trying to convince the world of something else? Those are like different endeavors. Sort of. I seem as different. OK, so like what I'm talking about is is figuring something out for yourself and trying to convince another human being are like two completely different things. Like to me, those are fundamentally different. And I'm just trying to get a sense of whether it's a two way relationship. You know, like, right. So there's a difference between. There's a let me put it this way. Capture God. There's a difference between me figuring out what do I want to eat for dinner tonight and me convincing my wife that we should eat something else. Right. So I guess my my my main thing that I'm latching onto for no particular reason is that there are different sets of ideas in the world and not necessarily that you should try and convince someone else of their ideas or not not to usually convince someone else that your ideas are correct over theirs. But rather, how do you. How do you make those ideas fit with each other? How is there some sort of one Dharma, whereas there are a lot of different ideas in the world? There isn't one Dharma. OK, so I really don't. I think you're you're I don't know what you're. So I hear what you're saying. I think it's it's a slightly separate direction from when where I was hoping to go. Sure, I'm just raising questions that I think will be raised. I'm just raising questions that I think will be relevant. Yeah, I appreciate you raising the questions. But I mean, I think the first question you asked was the closest to the relevance of what we're talking about is like, which I think is like, how do you know whether your dharma is correct? Dr. Kate, can I ask a very essential question to this? Sure. OK, this is like really the crux of my my discussion here at all. I might be jumping the gun here, but like, what's the utility of the karma aspect? I think that's a karma aspect where you get the admiration of other people, because like I've lived my life thinking that I had to make up my goals totally independently from the others around me. And that's like what I seem to hear from basically everyone, right? That you want to derive your own purpose from reality, not that like you want to let other people influence you, but that use your mind, your reason, your logic to figure out what you enjoy most. And then you pursue that. What's the utility of like allowing other people to determine that for you? Partially, yes. So I don't I don't I sort of disagree with the premise of your question. So the first thing is use the word admiration as a correlation with karma. Right. Karma is not about admiration as nothing. The admiration is about ego. So I don't think that you should develop your dharma based on the admiration of others. I think you should develop your dharma based on karma, which is your circumstance. So in my case, you know, when I did the red at AMA, like people said, like, hey. So, I mean, I definitely got an ego boost from it. But then I noticed that ego and I was kind of like, OK, at the end of the day, like, let's just set the ego aside. A lot of people think I'm smart. That's kind of cool. But if I stop and really think and I set my ego aside, the bigger issue is that a lot of people need help. And I don't think that has anything to do with admiration. I think it's just like they need help. And so that drove me. But like you're determining that on your own, you're not determining that because you're like because, you know, like you're determining whether people actually have a demand for something totally independently. Right. So Rosa Parks made the decision independently that racism. Yes. Even though the people who answered it. OK. But you're still saying that. I mean, what if someone this might sound crazy, but like, what if someone doesn't really find much pleasure in like serving others in this way? That's fine. That's that's OK. Like, I'm not trying to attribute a value judgment towards doing something. I think we're getting a little bit. I appreciate all questions. I love these kinds of discussions, but I'm wondering if like we're going a little bit too far afield of the main topic, which is how to find your time. Move on. And yes, let me just put the vocab on screen. Yeah, sure. So let me just try to let me try to just summarize, because I think you guys basically I mean, I'm not trying to say you all are allowed to give me the answers that I don't want. But I think you guys you guys filled in the main gap, which I think you guys did a good job of. OK, see, that helps a lot. Now it's duty. It's not I thought it was purpose and like your individual sense. No. So so and I think here's the main thing to remember. So if you're looking for your Dharma, the first phase is to prepare. Right. So this is what Brahmacharya Ashram means. It's like to be a student. So you don't know what life is going to throw at you. You don't know what life is going to demand of you. Or in digital dystopias case, you don't know what you're going to demand of yourself. Right. And so you don't know what you're going to demand of yourself. And so you don't know, like 10 years from now, if you come to a particular conclusion that a certain thing is good or a certain thing is bad, you need to prepare yourself for that eventuality. So everyone's first Dharma is to themselves that you should learn and grow and understand how you work and formulate thoughts about who you believe, who you are, what you believe the rest of the world is and to prepare. And this isn't just this doesn't mean getting a degree. It doesn't mean becoming a doctor. It doesn't like I'm not trying to put a value judgment on helping other people or things like that, because at the end of the day, there are people who become monks and go and sit in a cave in the Himalayas for their entire life. And that's their Dharma. They're not helping anyone. They're just hanging out there because that's what they've determined they need to do in their life. I do not judge them. I do not say that my Dharma is better than theirs. So your Dharma does change over time, though. Absolutely. Because, OK, just like you said, no, it didn't. And so I was confused. And then I had to listen for a while to see, like, why I was. Yeah, I was. So, OK, but I'm back on track. And then what happens as you prepare? Life is going to send you some stuff, right? If you interact with the world, life is going to send you things like it's going to give you bosses, it's going to give you job opportunities. It's going to give you family members. It's going to give you friends. And sometimes in my case, it's going to give you the Internet that wants to know more about what you think. And then you have to rise to that challenge. But that's determined by karma. And everyone's karma is different, right? So my dharma is determined by my karma. But digital dystopia's karma is different. His family is different. His upbringing is different. His skills are different. That's all encapsulated with karma. That circumstance. Chat is your karma. Yes, chat is my karma. And then what happens is if you're thoughtful, you come up with your dharma. So this dharma I had before I had this one, right? So like AoE healing is like a relatively recent thing, but I had my first kid back in 2015 and then the Reddit was in 2018. And so your dharma changes over time. And so absolutely. So I'd say that the first thing that you guys need to do, if you're looking for your dharma, is prepare. Just understand that it doesn't matter what life throws at you. If you're physically fit, you're going to be better at it. If you're mentally fit, you're going to be better at it. That you should learn as much as you can. You want to learn coding? Go for it. Because if you learn coding, that may influence your karma. And one day you may have the opportunity to develop an app, but that's only going to work if you. Learned how to code. And the other way to think about it is like, now people are asking me for help. And like that depends on this. If I had not done these things, I wouldn't be able to help anyone. Or maybe I would, but the capacity that I have to help is determined by my experiences and is determined by what I do. And also the shortcomings that I have, because I'm not able to help everyone. Right. There are some people that are not going to understand what I'm saying, are not going to agree with what I'm saying. And that's perfectly fine. I'm not saying I'm right, but that I'm going to have limitations, too, because I can't do everything. And that's determined because when I was in India at the end of the day, like after I came back from India and I was in the US, I still played Warcraft 3. I still played Dota. If I had studied harder, maybe I would be able to like do a better job today on stream. If I had studied harder at any point, I could have done a better job with any of the people that I've talked to. It's possible. But at this point, I think the main thing you need to do is prepare. Prepare, build strength, build strength for the raid. And it doesn't because here's the thing, if you guys are playing the game of life, it doesn't matter like what you are like. Ultimately, when you play a game, you have to play the character that you're playing. So like level up your character because the rest of it is all circumstance, whether you're a doctor, an engineer, a monk, a father, a truck driver, it doesn't matter at the end of the day. You still are like controlling player one. Right. So work on player one. That's Dharma. Number one is like make player one level up player one the best that you can. And then I agree. I have so many DBAs though. Yeah. Yeah. So I recently found myself in a situation where I think my Dharma has changed or I've gotten a new responsibility per se. I don't have the background to deal with that. Is it now my responsibility if this is something that I want to do to prepare to go through those steps or should I push them off to someone who, you know, might have who might be able to help them now? I'm going to let the rest of the people in this Discord answer. I'll try it. OK. So, I mean, this is from a totally outside perspective, with like no connection to like Hindu spiritualism or anything. Just like whenever you encounter a new challenge in life, right, you want to gradually build up your strength so that you can overcome it eventually. Right. So take incremental steps to like improve your ability to cope with it right now. And obviously don't expect perfection of yourself immediately. So, I don't know, for instance, if you're put in like a huge social environment, like maybe you go to college and you're struggling to be outgoing. Well, maybe the first day you should look and you should smile and wave at people. But that's it. And then the next day or like a few days later, you can move that up to like starting new conversations with people. And eventually you can become totally socially adept. It's just self-improvement. Does that answer your question, Flapjack? Yeah, a little bit. I mean, it does. Does somebody else have an answer? I'm passionate. What was that? What do you say? I just want to give someone else has an answer for Flapjack's question. I think Flap said something, but it cut off. Oh, I was just talking, you know, this this is a background I think I would want to pursue, so what you're saying makes sense to like slowly level up. But I'm wondering if it's worth it to just sort of drop what I'm doing and really try to go that. Well, what do you want? Do you want to achieve it or not? That's what you have to determine. And you can only determine that like through really, really critical thinking, maybe meditation. You know, I'm like more of a secular person in this, so I don't really suggest that stuff as much. But just like, you know, consider the things you value most. Figure out what you like in life, what you don't like. And it's it's a tough decision, but you have to take risks like this in life. So either yes or no, either, you know, I'm going to pursue this goal or not. Let's see if. So I go for it. Capture God. Well, I think it depends on exactly what we're talking about, but it sounds like there's sort of a family members in need or someone close to you is in need who you feel like you could help. But if you do so, it might be at the cost of your own personal development. Is that is that sound correct at all? That's I mean, that's actually pretty spot on. And I've actually already taken steps. I think I had contacted Dr. K on Reddit earlier this week, asking like how to become a recovery coach. Just I want to like take steps toward down that path if I can. And the only thing I'm not a psychologist and I'm not qualified to talk about this, but I think the only thing that really matters is helping people understand themselves. And sort of in order to do that, you have to be able to understand them. OK, I don't think that necessarily conflicts. I want to just jump in for a second because I need to get going. In a few minutes. But first of all, I think this is great that you guys are having this discussion. And I think this is why we built this discord. Right. So like for people to work through their Dharma, to ask questions of each other, to help support each other. I'll sort of offer one or two kind of last thoughts and then I'm going to bounce. But you guys, by all means, can continue the discussion. The first we talk on stream. No, I'm going to stop the stream, but you guys can continue talking for your benefit. The first thing is that, you know, if you're not in a position to help someone, cut yourself some slack. But at the same time, that may be your karma telling you that you should prepare in a particular way. Right. So I think if you want to like do something and you feel like, OK, I really do want to help this person, but I'm not able to. That's not your fault that you can't help them. The last thing is I generally tend to avoid statements like drop things entirely, because I think usually there's some middle road. So I just be careful about that. Like you could probably do more than one thing at once. And sacrifice is oftentimes, you know, should be the last resort, not the first resort. But I think it's great that you guys are thinking about this. The last is there was one question that people were asking about, like, how do you know if your dharma is right or comes from a good place? And I thought capture or my interpretation of capture God's question, I thought was a good one, which doesn't mean that his wasn't a good one. It's just I liked his question because it's one that I wanted to answer. I think it's easy to misinterpret, but I was trying to be. Yeah. So how do you know whether your dharma is like right or wrong? Like if I'm a racist and I think that, like, you know, genocide needs to happen for a particular race, how do I know whether that dharma is correct or incorrect? And I think this is an excellent question because it comes down to how do you know when to trust your mind or to not trust your mind? So your mind comes up with conclusions all the time about what you should or shouldn't do. But how do you know whether that like, whether to trust what your mind is telling you or not trust what your mind is telling you. And I think the short answer is you have to figure out like where you got that belief. And for a lot of people who want to hurt the world or do damage to other people, their beliefs about inequality or that things should be a particular way are rooted in anger. And in turn, that anger is oftentimes rooted in hatred. I mean, sorry, the anger is rooted in hurt. So people who I've noticed that a lot of people who hate in the world have like, like the source of their hatred is some kind of hurt. And until you fully understand and explore that, I don't think that you can really understand your dharma. And generally speaking, I think people who determine that their course in life is based out of being hurt in some way, you've got to be really careful with that because I don't think that's a calm or clear mind that's making that decision. Okay. I was just going to say like it's not necessarily true. Right. I think you actually said this yourself that like something rooted in hate is necessarily like a rational because I think like a lot of the things in my life that are rooted in, I mean not hatred for other people, but like hatred of some aspect of reality. Like those are some of the things I'm most proud of. And that like, give me the greatest sense of purpose in my, so it's not just the source, but like it's whether it's rationally developed from that source is what you're saying. Yeah. So you should reflect and understand. I mean, I think, I think digital to Sophi, I think, you know, you're, you're, you, you sort of set up a circumstance or you're describing a circumstance of your life in the way that you approach things that I think are a little bit unique, which is cool. But I think in general, what I would tell people is if you're trying to understand whether your dharma is correct or incorrect, try to try to find like the, the origin of where you got the idea that you're thinking about pursuing. And if you reflect on that, if you reflect on it and then you decide, okay, this is like, this is the result of like hatred or this is the result of like rational thought, or this is the result of, of X, Y or Z, then, then you'll kind of know how to move forward. And this is something that even I struggle with because I'm trying to understand like, what is my dharma to like the people on street? Like what should I do with my life now? Because I have a job, I have a family. How do I reconcile the dharmas that I clearly have to my patients with the dharmas that I have for like Twitch and streaming and helping all these people? Because there's ego and what I've discovered is that there's ego there. Right? So part of when I say, Oh, I want to quit my job and I want to stream full time. Ego is a big part of that because I get loved through stream in a way by many more people than I get loved in regular life. And so I should be careful about what I determined my dharma to be as long as that ego is active. So what's the calculation make or whatever you do to figure out what you want to do then? I mean, so I think, so I use a systematic process of, you know, things like meditation to reflect within myself and see where the origin of things are coming from. And the more that I align with helping an individual person or just doing the best that I can on a day, that's what I really go for. So it's not about whether a streamer is big or small. Like we struggle with this sum in terms of like, okay, if a big streamer comes on, like what do we do? Do we bump someone else who is on our schedule? Do we push them back? Like, how do we do that? Like what feels good about that? What feels bad about that? How much of that has to do with like, you know, ego and all kinds of things. So I think it's an ongoing process. There isn't a simple answer. I think the main thing is that you kind of go back to this, which is training yourself, right? Training yourself to understand things, training yourself to understand yourself, studying different kinds of texts, whether they be Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Frankel or the Mahabharata or Harry Potter, to like go and learn from different places and things and like, try to like figure out how, what your compass is going to be based on. And the more that you learn about yourself and the more that you acquire from the rest of the world, like read Count of Monte Cristo. If you want to talk about Dharma and the struggles with what you should do, like read Count of Monte Cristo. It's an amazing book. Read the Mahabharata. Learn about this stuff because it is an individual journey for everyone and no one has all the answers, least of all me. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly. I think that's something really important to mention. Okay. I don't want to be rude, but like it seems like in a lot of times on like Discord and Twitch, it seems like a lot of people are developing this sort of like, I don't want to be rude, but like cult of personality sort of around you where like, oh, what you're saying is the necessary and proper guide to them. It's like what happened with Jordan Peterson. I think it could be really toxic, so I'm glad you're taking steps to counter that. Okay. Thanks for the feedback. All right. So thank you guys very much. I'm going to go ahead and sign off Discord, but thank you guys for hopping on and appreciate the discussion. And, you know, I'm curious what people thought. Like, how did that go? Is that good? Do you guys want to do that? Um, like, do you guys want to hop on Discord from time to time? Like, if it seems like a good thing to do?