 The instinctual solution would be what you have to do is find meaning in life. Right? Like that's the standard answer. Like if you're unhappy and your life has no meaning, go and find meaning. Like we have this Discord thing that you can join too, where people talk about what's wrong with the world. I think that's useful. But what I want everyone to understand is that in Kevin's case, it's not just finding meaning. It's finding when meaning went away. Because when you are nine or ten, life hopefully has meaning. It's simple meaning, but it's meaning. Calling you, buddy. Yeah, we're gonna do meditation. Don't worry. I promised you guys meditation, we're gonna do it. But I feel like we have to do this real quick. Hey, can you hear me? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah, I don't have a webcam and I'm from Denmark, so I hope the accent isn't... Hi. Cool. No problem. Can you guys hear Lupus? Okay. So Lupus, you made a statement earlier about you feel like your suffering is because you have a lot of expectations. I would think so. Yeah, so tell me what you mean by that. I think every time I want to make a change or when I view my life, it's really hard to... It's hard to formulate. That's okay. Take your time. So when I think of, for example, what really ignited how I feel right now is the breakup I had with my girlfriend. And I came to a realization that I had built up everything in my life around being with her and nothing about being with me. So the attachment to every thought I had in the future was based really around being with her and not being with myself, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so I think this is going to be a short call. You're welcome to come back on later. But I think that's the crux of it, right? Yeah. So here's the reason that you don't have a life worth living is because you don't have a life worth living. So here's the reason that you don't have a life worth living is because you constructed this castle of a life with her in your mind. And so that was the life that was worth living. And it involved her. Like you built this castle with her in mind and she was a part of every brick. Each of those bricks that you placed with her in mind is one attachment. This is where you were going to live. This is what Mondays would be like. This is what Tuesdays would be like. This is when you would or wouldn't have kids or you guys were going to talk about having kids. You're going to visit family, not visit family. Everything in life involves her. That's what I'm hearing from you. Yeah. And the way that I've thought about it is like how I feel now on my education and on my everyday life is that I have no desire to complete my final education. Because the desire was to like go to work and then come home to her. It wasn't to be content with work. Yeah. So do you guys see this? Do you see how like the reason that so this isn't necessarily depression, right? This is an attachment to a fantasy and fulfillment of that fantasy was the driving force in Lupus's life. Like it was all to create this life. And now that the girlfriend is out of the picture, the life comes crumbling down. And all of your reasons for living and suffering and trying suffering isn't the right word for like, you know, doing things that are not fun. We're based on this ideal. So now, Lupus, how old are you? What do I call you, by the way? You can call me Kevin if it's better. Sure. But how I feel is that even without her, I'm still sad. Like, I don't know how it's really hard to formulate. Yeah. So I think you definitely. Yeah. So I think you have. So I think the tricky thing here is that you have sadness. How long ago did you all break up? It was one week ago. There we go. OK. But the like the feeling of non-fulfillment or the feeling of of sadness and that whole charade has been going on for years. Surroundings a couple of traumatic events. And I think the I was I think that I was sad before I met her, but she made the like the reasons to live better. Like, I didn't really have any reasons to do anything before meeting her. And then when I met her, like everything was based around this whole fact. And we've been together for five years. So so the state of being unhappy has been really long. But she has she made the whole like not suffering you distinguish that. But but being sad worth it because I could go home to her. Exactly. I want you guys I want everyone and you to understand this, Kevin, the sadness. In her your relationship with her are independent things. That's what I've been saying all along. And the problem is that your lack of fulfillment could be numbed because of the positivity of your relationship with her. Yeah, I see that. Yeah. So like it's only now that I realize this. Yes. And so this is the big problem is that everyone is going to think that you're feeling unfulfilled because you broke up with her. She broke up with you or whatever. But you have to understand that your search for meaning predated her. Yeah. And that the only way to fix that problem is to find meaning. Like you can forget it. You can distract yourself with girlfriends, video games, parties, booze. You can distract yourself as much as you want to. But this is my whole point. This is what would they realize is that suffering is independent from all that other crap. So your search. So you have kind of different things going on. Right. So there's sadness because you broke up with someone that you've been with for five years. That's like absolutely like a psychosomatic thing. They're just parts of your physiology that are going to make you feel sad. Yeah. Unfortunately, you're just going to have to feel that way for some time. There are a lot of things that you can do that people kind of like common wisdom will say. So spending time with nature is great. It sounds like you're from Europe. So it's probably cold where you are. It's freezing in Denmark. Yeah. So if you're in Denmark. So I don't know exactly what people do there. But I'd say like listen to sad music, spend time with nature, spend time with animals, spend time with people that care about you. All those things are important. And there are two other things to think about. One is that some of your suffering is going to be because of the shattered expectations from this relationship. And one of those shattered expectations, this is a really important one, is that as long as she was in your life, you didn't have to figure out that other source of deeper sadness. That she was going to cure you of that other deeper sadness. That's the most dangerous expectation. But now you realize that she hasn't cured you of it and that it's still there. Yeah, it's also a realization that I've had myself thinking about the whole breakup and stuff because I'm, as you're saying, sad that we broke up. But now I have this other feeling that has been gone for five years and then predates all of this and predates all into my teens and stuff like that. And I think I can really distinguish between those two elements. And I know that I have to work on the ladder. Exactly. So I think it's awesome that you recognize that these are two fundamentally different things. And this is what hopefully I've illustrated enough. And for all of you all that are listening, understand that happiness and unhappiness and depression are two different things. And this is the conversation that I have with people is that we could treat your depression. We've sort of dealt with your depression. Now you're unhappy. There's a different road for that. But I have a question then about... Yes. My sadness relating to my girlfriend, I know a sadness and suffering to a certain degree. But can I still be depressed because my whole life I have had this numbness to a desire to do anything in my life, to complete anything meaningful, even things that really interests me and that I want to pour things into. And I know the trauma that really set this off. I don't know if you want to go into specifics or anything, but my dad got sick when I was around 12 years old. And I've known from that certain place in my life to now that I have had that feeling. So before it's kind of candid. I don't know if that's just childhood memories, nostalgia stuff. But I know that was the trigger and then certain traumas after that. So can this... I have never went to a psychiatrist or a psychologist or anything about this sadness. I only went last year and I didn't follow up on it because I was too scared to talk about my feelings. But now... But now you can chat, right? Yeah. You can't see my face. But now I've reached out to a doctor. I haven't reached out because my girlfriend broke up with me, but I've reached out because now I can really feel the suffering of not living. I distinguish my thoughts between my feelings and logic. And I know it's, for example, I know it's not good to kill yourself. I know it would hurt everyone around you and stuff like that. But my feelings say that I don't want to live. I don't have a desire to live. Yeah. So that's something that you have to discover. So this is where most people think, and this could be true, I don't really know, that a desire to live is something that people just stumble upon. There's this huge assumption that the default state is to have a desire to live and have goals and passions and motivations. In my experience, it doesn't fucking work like that. A desire to live, a reason to live is something that is gained through effort and sweat and hard work, exploration, pain and reflection. Yeah. So how old are you, Kevin? 26. Okay. So at your age, I was doing absolutely nothing. Like not a damn thing. I graduated from college with a shitty GPA, didn't have a job. Actually, I did have a job. Maybe. Actually, 26, maybe I was doing something. I take that back. Maybe 25. But I mean, I think, you know, you have to do some soul searching. And I understand that, I mean, your life lacks meaning, which is the problem, but also that like meaning is not something that you stumble upon. And in your case, I think part of what's going on is like this trauma that you said I think is very significant. Now, this is the other problem is people confuse like trauma with depression because both of them make you feel like not doing anything. But I think the origins of these two things are very different. So if your root problem is that you started to feel like life was meaningless because your dad got sick when you were 12, that's where the work needs to be done. Yeah. And I think unresolved traumas. Can you call that a trauma? Like people dying and yeah, okay. Because there are several of those that I can clearly distinguish between. How did you feel when you, what do you remember about when your dad got sick and you were 12? How did you feel? I don't know that that gets really rough. I laugh when I'm like nervous. So, yeah. Yeah. I actually began when he was in the hospital. I was being kind of a stand up comedian because I wanted everybody to laugh. Yeah, I felt really sad. I don't even know if that's the word because he worked so much before that I didn't even knew him. And then he was home all the time. And I think the change in our life that he had had to be home and the change he had to do mentally, like he became another person chronically ill person that I don't know. I was specifically talking about my feelings towards the trauma or I'm getting confused. Sorry. Yeah, I think you're doing great. How did it feel to see him transform? That was really devastating, I think would be the right word. And what did it break within you? It broke something. Yeah, it broke like reality that the thought that your parents are immortal. I certainly had to take on a much larger responsibility at home. I think the challenge here, Kevin, I'm going to just take a shot in the dark because we're going to have to transition soon. All right. I'm sorry. It's not to take up time. No, no, no, no. I mean, I invited you on and I'm really glad you came on. I'm going to apologize to you because I think the challenge here is that the feeling it created in you is not something that a 12 year old knows how to put words to. No, I still can't put words to it. I'm going to try. I think the feeling it created for 12 year old you is what's the fucking point? If he can work so hard and this can happen to him and you can build so much in life and then you get to turn into this, like, what's the fucking point? Yeah. Yeah, like I really struggled with like, what's it called when you don't care about the outcomes of things. It's like a philosophy. Yeah. Yeah. That everything is meaningless. It's not a stoic stoic. Yeah. And I listen. I really struggled with that because one other time when I was feeling really down, I really had the thought that everything was just meaningless. Yes. So this is something you've got to really understand, Kevin is like for you, for other people, it's a philosophy for you. It's a reality because you saw it happen to you. You saw it happen to your dad. You saw the futility of life get shown to you in the way that your dad's life crumbled apart. Right. So for other people, it's something that they read about in a philosophy class for you. For you, you saw that when you were 12 and it left its fucking mark. And now when you say like, I have no reason to live. Yeah, because you don't understand what the point is because you were like, what's the fucking point if you can just get destroyed? And if this is like if you can work so hard, you can build a life, you can have children, you can have family, you can have a career. Sounds like you worked a lot and then you can get sick and it all just goes to shit. Like, why bother? Like, I don't think you're suicidal, which I know you've you said you aren't, which I'm grateful for. I think your problem is like, what's the point? Yeah. And so that feeling was a has its origins in a lesson that you learned by watching your father get sick. And until you unlearn that lesson, you're going to continue to feel this way. The good news is that it can be on and that you can find me. It's just 12 year old you didn't understand what was going on. And the problem is that when we're young, the stuff that forms in our mind stays there, but doesn't like grow with us. And someone was asking, is this a samskar? Absolutely. This is the definition of a samskar. Can you briefly say what that is? No. So I think I talked about samskars on a prior stream. Hopefully there's a there's a so I'll explain it very briefly. So a samskar is a ball of undigested emotion that sort of continues to exert an influence on your mind. All right. That makes sense. Yeah. So the example that I use is like if I'm walking down the street. Let's say that you ever hang out with kids, Kevin. Yeah. Yeah. Nieces or nephews or anything. Yeah. I had a niece and when I was with my girlfriend. So so when you how old is your niece? Nine. OK. So did you hang out with your niece when she was like six? Yeah. OK. I got to know the full five years. OK, great. So when you imagine that your niece is six years old and you're walking down the street and she sees a dog and she gets excited because she likes dogs and she pets the dog and the dog bites her. What happens in her mind? What does she feel? She would feel scared of the dog. Absolutely. Right. She's terrified. So thankfully, let's say that the dog didn't really hurt her or anything like that. She doesn't need medical attention. And then she's your niece. So you have presumably brothers or sisters who are her parents. Yeah, it was on my girlfriend's side. So yeah, like her sister. Yeah. OK. So, you know, let's say that you're babysitting the niece and then the niece is crying. And so you're kind of thinking like, OK, how am I going to calm this child down? And then you walk into a toy store and then you get her like 10 minutes later, she's got a toy in her hands. And what do you think she's feeling then? Joy. Absolutely. Right. Yeah. Yeah. What happened? What happened to the scare? What happened to the fear? Where'd it go? Is it gone? No, it's still there. But but now she has something else to be joyous about. OK. And what? So let's say so how does the how does the fear come back in her? What can bring it back up? Like the when she sees a dog? Absolutely. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And every time she sees a dog, that fear is going to return. Yeah. Now, let's say you're walking down the street. And you see a dog and you reach out to pet it and it bites you. What's the first thing that happens in your mind? I wouldn't get scared, but yes, you would. I think. Yes, yes, get out of more pain. Yeah. In the first instant, you would have the same reaction as your five year old niece. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Then what happens in your mind? Yeah, I would be able to distinguish and get over that. I think I know what you're getting at. What am I getting at? That the like my niece, that emotion would stay with her for a long time. But as an adult, you would be able to distinguish between having to be scared of a dog because one bit you and then approaching another one without being scared. Yes. And the big difference is that your mind does some processing of that emotion. Live processing. It just doesn't get buried by distraction. You actually think through how you feel and you process it. Does that make sense? It makes a lot of sense. Like so. So my childhood self was like bit by this trauma. Absolutely. And like now, if it happened in my later years, I would be able to process it in a whole other way so that it wouldn't affect my everyday life. Absolutely. Absolutely. Right. So if you had found meaning in your life and your dad passed away and got sick now, you would still be sad. You would still be grief, grieved. You would still be devastated. But you would be able to process it. And some people don't and some people do. Right. Because some people like, you know, in their 20s, something bad happens to them and they're not able to recover. So now the big problem, the big difference between you and your niece is that you have the capacity to process now. The 12 year old you did not. Yeah. And so the good news is you can go back in time and you can sort of talk to your 12 year old self. Right. With the help of a therapist or someone like that, because that makes it way easier. And with the help of meditation, you can go back and explore those feelings and you can digest them. Yeah, because now they right at this moment, they feel numb. Like I have a hard time. Yes. Reaching back and feeling anything. Yeah. Do you play RPGs? Yeah. Which RPGs? I've played World of Warcraft. Okay. So in World of Warcraft you have an inventory, right? Yeah. The problem here is that you picked up a lot of crap, like level five, like swords and shit. Yeah. When you were 12 and it's sitting in your inventory and it's clogging up your inventory, you never get rid of it. You got to get rid of it. It's just sitting back there. And it's like buried so far in your inventory that you can't even access it. And it like every time you open your inventory, it's there and it's just fucking taking up space. And like you can't, but like, so it's like, it's interfering with things, but you don't, it's just there. It's just like, you know, and so you've got to, you've got to process it. You've got to go back and, and, and so this is the tricky thing is like the instinctual solution would be what you have to do is find meaning in life. Right? Like that's the standard answer. Like if you're unhappy and your life has no meaning, go and find meaning. Like we have this discord thing that you can join to where people talk about what's wrong with the world. I think that's useful. But what I want everyone to understand is that in, in Kevin's case, it's not just finding meaning. It's finding when meaning went away. Because when you were nine or 10, like life hopefully has meaning. Like it's just, it's simple meaning, but it's meaning. I can, I can, I can like, yeah, clearly remember which person I was before this incident and, and which person I became after the incident. Yeah. There you go. So you got to go back and find that person. Right. Yeah. There's a guy in chat saying, vendor in your trauma, absa fucking Lutely. That's what you need to do. Yeah. Right. You got to vendor it. You can't just like, it's just hanging out. It's been hanging out there. And then the problem is you've, you've, you've had that shit in your backpack for 14 years. So you think that your backpack is like, has like 30 less spaces available. Like you don't even realize it's become so normal for you that you don't even realize that that's just like, you don't realize that you've got 30 backpack slots that are just taking up by crap because you've had it since the beginning. Like as long as you can remember. That makes really a lot of sense. Yeah. It really does. I really feel like, like after the incident, like everything from being able to do well in school and, and like everything. Yeah. The motivation and the desire to do anything like it really felt like I only have like a third of the motivation, the third of everything else, the third of the desire to get up in the morning. Yeah. Yeah. So it looks like two thirds of your backpack is full and that shit is just swimming around in your unconscious mind and your mind literally like, like, so this is something that I want everyone to understand about the mind. One of the Swamis I was studying with once told me that any task that's unfinished like occupies a bit of RAM in your processor and trauma to in your case. I think the problem is that two thirds of your RAM is being occupied by whatever this is. By what sorry? By like this trauma or whatever. Like two thirds of your operating power is just like clogged up. Yeah. And, and so the cool thing is that like, like we can talk about finding meaning and finding dharma and all that good stuff. You can watch some of the previous streams about that or what check out our YouTube if you don't know what I'm talking about. But at the end of the day, in your case, I think it's about cleaning house, right? I think it's about understanding that at some point in life, you lost your sense of meaning and life became fundamentally like life became. So this is what happened to you when you were 12 years old. Life became a game not worth playing. Yeah. It's just not worth it to play anymore. And so now you find yourself at 26 and you're like, why can't I play this game? I think this game is fucking stupid. And I'm saying, yeah, you do, because you learned that when you were 12, it became a stupid game. But you got to go back. Yeah. Right. And you got to find out like what happened. Like, why did I think this game? Oh, the reason the game fucking sucks is because my controller got unplugged. And so I just respawn and I get like camped by these assholes and I can't shoot and I can't move. Or I can use was to like move around, but I can't use my mouse to like point anything. Now we're playing in FPS, by the way. Yeah. And then it's like, sure, you can you can in theory you can play FPS with just a keyboard in theory. But boy, is that going to be a shitty game to play. You feel really crippled. Yeah. And how do you feel, Kevin? Crippled. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. So plug your fucking mouse back in and aim. Yeah. Okay, we're going to do some meditation. Like with me or should I jump off? I mean, you can hang out on Discord if you want to. I'm going to transition. All right. All right. Sure. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your fingers. Reach out to Moses if you want to come back on and we can talk more. Yeah, sure. I'll be here for the evening and then I will really be. Tonight I'm going to go home and sleep and spend time with my children. Oh, yeah, sure. But I thought you meant later tonight. We have a schedule where you can come on and we can spend like an hour together. Oh, okay. That would be awesome. Yeah. I'll write Moses. Okay. Yeah. Sure. Thank you so much. Sure. How do we do a round of applause for Kevin? Okay. Thanks a lot, Kevin. Thank you. Yeah. Bye. Okay. So, yeah, so I think I think, you know, Kevin was struggling for the words. I think crippled is a good word. All right. So let's do let's do meditation. Now the question is, what kind of meditation are we going to do to given the situation today about trauma, meaning?