 So let's start with this. So anyone with ADHD get overly angry at certain games. So I get literal migraines when I lose at League. If I lose two to three games, my day is ruined until I go to sleep. I did some research and recently found out that people with ADHD have issues with emotional regulation. Wondering if anyone else has had this issue or if it's related or if it's not ADHD related. I love the game, but the way it makes me feel after losses isn't normal. I literally have to avoid my favorite game because of how angry I get. So this is a really cool post. Not because this person unfortunately gets super angry when they play League, but because first of all, the person recognizes that they have ADHD and they've done research about it and they've started to discover that, oh, like maybe my experience of life can be understood through like science. And by understanding science, maybe I can learn a little bit more about my situation and then like actually it can empower me to like move in the right direction. So what we're going to do today is talk a little bit about the relationship between ADHD and emotional regulation. So the first thing to understand is that people who play video games and rage in the video game, that's completely normal if you've got ADHD and it is worse for you than for other people. There's plenty of evidence that one of the key features of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is emotional dysregulation. OK, so if we think about ADHD, there are five attributes of emotional dysregulation that we kind of look for when we're thinking from a clinical perspective about ADHD. So that's mood lability and mood lability means high fluctuations in mood. So what that sort of means is that one moment you're feeling this way and the next moment you're feeling a different way. OK, so it's fluctuating mood. So a lot of people who say, oh, my God, I'm so bipolar. I'm happy one minute and then I play a game of League and then I'm so pissed off. I'm so bipolar. That's not bipolar disorder. That's mood lability. So rapidly fluctuating moods. The second thing is irritability. So one of the signs of emotional dysregulation, especially in ADHD, is that people are prone to a lot of irritability that can also turn into anger outbursts and what we call low frustration tolerance. So your ability to tolerate things that are annoying is like quite low. So people like it's easy to get under people's skin. And this has been shown to correlate with ADHD. And the last attribute of motivational, I mean, of emotional dysregulation is actually motivation deficits. So in people who have ADHD, we see all five of these. We see anger, we see irritability, we see low frustration tolerance, we see rapidly fluctuating moods, and we actually see motivational deficits as well. And we'll get to that in a second. In ADHD, unfortunately, these things do somehow correlate with the disease. And let's try to understand that for a second. So when researchers look at emotional dysregulation within ADHD, the first thing that we that they kind of acknowledge is that these things happen in people with ADHD, but they're not exclusive to ADHD. And this is something that I've seen a lot. Whereas if you like, if you look at like the normal population. OK, so let's just use paint for a second. So let's say like here is the normal population in terms of emotional regulation. And then here's like ADHD. So this is what it'll look like where emotion dysregulation is is worse in people with ADHD than it is in the normal population. But even in the normal population, there's still this overlap over here of people who are maybe have ADHD, maybe normal, but they have emotional dysregulation. The more troubling thing is that we're seeing trends in society. So the rate of ADHD diagnosis is increasing. Even according to theories like Ayurveda and stuff with technology addiction, Arbata is increasing. I think what we're beginning to see is that the overlap between the regular population and the ADHD population is shrinking. So this is what it looks like now, where there's like the amount of overlap is increasing. So these two curves are actually getting closer together. This has been my experience. So what I'm going to talk to you all about today about ADHD and emotional regulation, I'm going to cite studies and stuff from ADHD research, but it's been my experience. And I think we sort of see this epidemiologically as well, that the gap between healthy people and ADHD people is shrinking, that society as a whole is becoming more emotionally dysregulated, that we're becoming our attention span seems to be shrinking. We're having motivational problems. And I think it has a lot to do with the effect of technology. So let's try to dive in and understand a little bit about how this works. So the first thing that I'm going to do is share with you all a couple of interesting tests that we use to study ADHD. So the first is the stop signal test, which basically like you take someone with ADHD and then you show them like a picture that'll say like, go. And when when the screen flashes with go, they're supposed to start some task. So start stacking blocks as soon as you see the screen flash go. The screen flashes go, people with ADHD start, they start stacking blocks. And then what it does is it tells them to stop. So then the screens flashes stop. And when you flash stop, you're supposed to stop the task. So if you look at the brain of someone with ADHD versus the brain of someone who's normal or neurotypical, let's say what you find is that both of them are really good at starting right away. So as soon as you see the screen flash go, they everyone starts stacking blocks. But then when the screen flashes stop, a neurotypical person will stop right away. Whereas there's a lag time for the person with ADHD. So what people have discovered is that someone with ADHD has difficulty restraining their impulses. So you can start things easily, but if you have to stop doing something and shift your attention somewhere else, that's much more difficult in ADHD. The second thing that we're going to talk about for a second, because this is going to relate to gaming. OK, second thing that we're going to talk about is the delayed gratification test. So if you look at people with ADHD, they seem to have problems with executive function. And so what executive function is, the definition of executive function is self-directed actions needed to choose goals and to create and act and sustain actions towards those goals. So basically what the Internet is bad at, right? Like the ability to self-direct, create goals, enact goals and sustain actions towards goals. So people have found that their executive deficits and in the researchers have found that their executive deficits in ADHD, right? It's attentional problems. So I'm not able to restrain my attention. Therefore, I can't create goals and act towards them in a sustainable way. So the way that we measure, there's a there's a test here that becomes important as well, which is like if you give someone with ADHD, let's say you say, I'll give you a dollar now or I'll give you five dollars in five minutes for a neurotypical person. It's easier for them to choose five dollars in five minutes. It's easier for them to choose delayed gratification. And for the person with ADHD, it's much harder to choose delayed gratification. So there's something about the way that their brain kind of assesses choices that makes them default towards like instant gratification. And this also gets explored in terms of impulsivity. We're kind of not going to go into that because the neuroscience of ADHD is like awesome and complicated. It's so fascinating. So these are kind of two tests that teach us a couple of important things. The first is that people with ADHD tend to go impulsively towards like easier things like low hanging fruit. And secondly, like their ability to restrain those impulses is relatively low. So what does this all this have to do with emotional dysregulation? So let's talk about that very quickly. OK, we also know through research that people with ADHD have difficulty regulating their emotions. And there are a couple of important dimensions to this. The first is that it appears that the brains of people with ADHD are more sensitive to negative emotions. So that means is that if something bad happens to two people and you have an ADHD brain in their neurotypical brain, that frustrating thing is more likely to feel worse in the brain of ADHD. And why is that? That probably has to do with this executive dysfunction and this inability to like restrain impulses. So there's some evidence that the frontal lobes are part of what restrains or suppresses our experience of negative emotion. So when that that part of our brain isn't functioning, what we sort of think of as neurotypically, anytime an ADHD person gets exposed to something that pisses them off, like losing a game of League of Legends, their brain amplifies that negative emotion much more than a neurotypical brain. The second thing about emotional regulation that's a little bit different for people with ADHD is that they tend to be more unaware of their emotions. So this is a really fascinating study that was published in Neuropsychology about 20 years ago. But researchers essentially took neurotypical people and ADHD people, and they assessed their awareness of emotion. And what they essentially found is that for a neurotypical person, the more powerfully you feel an emotion, the more aware you are that you feel it. I know this sounds kind of weird, but like if I lose a loved one, is the intensity of my grief increases? I'm more likely to be aware that like I'm grieving, right? So the more powerful the emotion is, the more aware I am that I'm feeling it. So like if I'm super, super sad, it's easier for me to detect sadness within myself. So they found something really interesting, which is that in ADHD, the more powerful the emotion is, the more that the ADHD brain becomes blinded to it, okay, which is a really interesting, it's an interesting dichotomy. And so it's a fascinating paper. So this is, this kind of becomes more important for ADHD folks because as you begin to feel more intense emotion, you kind of become blinded to it. So like if you're playing a game of League of Legends, like even though you're starting to feel angry, like you're not going to become aware of it. The more angry you feel, like it sort of like suppresses your ability to become aware of it. And so what it does is kind of rises to the surface and then overflows like a volcano. So this is really common in people with ADHD who play video games is that their, their sensitivity to the emotion is greater. Their ability to restrain the emotion from a frontal lobe standpoint and kind of like suppress it is weaker and their blindness to the emotion actually increases. So it's really fascinating, but it does appear like there, there are a lot of things about video games that really like interact with the ADHD brain in a very specific and unique way. So if we kind of go back to like delayed gratification and that kind of stuff, the stop signal test, we can also see why people play League of Legends and get really frustrated, right? So the ADHD brain is like looking at my options for the day and like literally my brain is going to overvalue things that offer immediate gratification. I'm more likely to be impulsive and not be able to restrain my decisions. So I can apply for a job today, which my brain is going to like devalue because of literally the way that it does calculations. And it's going to emphasize things like playing video games because those have very immediate gratifications. So that's why I start to play the game. As I play the game and I start to get emotional, remember that my brain is a little bit more prone to emotional dysregulation. I have low frustration tolerance. That probably has to do with my frontal lobes as well. And then as I start to get angry, I start to become blinded to that emotion, which then lets me perpetuate and not restrain and adjust my behavior, causes the anger to compound, kind of builds on itself. And then it kind of overflows and then you wind up with headaches. So for this person who's saying, is it normal? Like have other people experienced this? Like what you're experiencing is completely in line with what we understand about ADHD in video games, which is like low frustration tolerance, blindness to your emotion and experiencing emotion and raging more than a neurotypical brain. Another important caveat to remember is that remember is, is the difference between neurotypical and ADHD starts to shrink. We start to see people who may not have ADHD start to manifest with some of these behaviors. And so, you know, people will sort of ask, okay, like, what do I do about it? And this is interesting because the first thing that you have to do is understand the emotion that you experience. There's a model of emotional regulation, which basically breaks emotional regulation and the value of emotional regulation into five steps. Okay. So what's the value of emotional regulation and like, how do I get it? The first step to emotional regulation is situation selection. And this is where we are, our emotions influence, which situations will let ourselves go into. Situation modification, which is changing relevant aspects of a situation based on how it could like, how I could feel emotionally. If I'm going to be anxious by going to a party, like I may not go to the party because other people are there. I may go to a small gathering, right? So my emotions and my anticipation of how I feel emotionally will select the situation that I go into. The second thing is situation modification. So if I do go to a party and I'm anxious, if I'm aware that I'm going to be anxious, I may bring a friend with me. So it reduces my anxiety. Attentional deployment is the third piece of kind of emotional regulation. And that's once I'm at the party, what am I going to choose to focus on? Cause if you know this, if you have social anxiety that your mind like is paying attention to the 20 people who are like, who may be thinking things about you and what you're wearing and you can't restrain your attention and actually like attend to the conversation that you're having. So that actually has to do with emotional regulation as well, because our emotions will dictate where our attention is deployed. Another aspect of emotional regulation that's really important is reappraisal. So this is altering the way that we think about a situation so that our emotions are not like really influencing it. So if I'm not aware of emotions, like if I'm filled with shame and I go and I like try to get a job and then I get, I don't get the job, what's going to happen is like that shame will appraise that situation in a particular way. The way that I make judgments about that situation are going to be due to my emotional appraisal, right? So I'll conclude, Oh, you know, I'm a terrible person. They're going to have far more qualified candidates. Whereas like there are a thousand reasons why I may not get a job. It may have nothing to do with me, but I have to be aware of that emotional contribution to my judgments. And then the fifth thing is response modulation. So people who have a high degree of emotional regulation can literally modulate their emotional responses. When I rage in a game of league of legends, like how do I regulate it? How do I modulate that response? So I don't get as upset. So these are kind of the five components of emotional regulation and people with ADHD tend to be not great at those. And so the question becomes, okay, how do I fix this? How do I like regulate my emotions? And it all starts with being able to recognize emotions. And so I know it sounds kind of unsatisfying, but to a lot of people, what I'll say is like, just notice your emotions. Like you can't start anywhere except for noticing your emotions. And there's good evidence that people who train themselves in understanding their emotions will improve in all five of those domains. And this is what's kind of interesting is if you're listening to that solution and you're saying like, that's not enough, I need to modulate my emotions. I'm not like understanding emotions feels insufficient. That's probably your ADHD brain, like looking for a short term solution and devaluing like a long term solution that doesn't appear to immediate gratification, right? So it's kind of interesting because even if you say that's not enough, that's not what I want. Where is that judgment coming from?