 they sort of can't swap tasks. So once you have one task on deck, once you have like one active task, you can't table it for other tasks and come back to it later. So today we're going to be running, we're going to be going through a couple of things. We're going to be talking about, we're going to be reacting to some ADHD TikToks. So talking a little bit about ADHD. And then we're also going to be talking a little bit about why we sometimes just feel relief instead of accomplishment when we do something. Right? So sometimes we have this idea that like, when I accomplish something, I should feel accomplished. But sometimes when we accomplish things, all we feel is relief. Like when you're panicking about the final, panicking about the final exam, and then you take the final exam and you don't say like, yay, I did it. It's like, oh my God, thank God that's over. And so it's really challenging because if you're living a life where all of your actual accomplishments just feel like relief, instead of any kind of achievement, it can be really hard to kind of motivate yourself. And so we're going to be talking a little bit about that. We're also going to be talking a little bit about anger today. So I think anger is one of the emotions that we haven't touched on too much. I think anger is a really, really interesting emotion. We're going to kind of dive into what makes anger kind of unique as an emotion. And so hopefully that'll be helpful. Okay? So let's dive in. So I'm seeing that people are having different kinds of responses to this, right? So this is kind of an interesting perspective on ADHD. People kind of call this, I think, white noise or even like warm brown noise is one of the terms. And so one of the things that is kind of interesting is that when people make TikToks like this, they'll say that this has been scientifically proven to be effective. And for some people, we're seeing a variety of different responses. Some people are feeling very, very different. Some people are feeling not different at all. Some people actually feel like this is troublesome because it actually triggers their tinnitus-like symptoms or reminds them of tinnitus or tinnitus. And so I'd love to talk a little bit about how scientifically valid this is and actually what's going on because this is a really interesting principle of ADHD. So it turns out that this is actually has some scientific validation. So neuropsychological and neurophysiological effects from white noise in children with and without ADHD. So this is a really interesting paper. It's in the public domain. Y'all can access it yourselves, but it is interesting because people have done studies on the effect of white noise for people with ADHD. And what they sort of discovered is that sometimes white noise can help people with ADHD. And the reason for that is really fascinating. So if you take someone with ADHD, what you find is that their ADHD symptoms fluctuate with the environment. And the more boring of an environment, the less stimulus you have in the environment, the worse the ADHD becomes. So I'll give you all kind of a simple example. If I take a kid with ADHD and I, if I take two kids with ADHD and I put one in a room with a chair and absolutely nothing else, and I take another kid and put them in a room with a chair and some toys and some other things, let's say it's like a seven-year-old kid, we'll see that these kids behave very, very differently. And generally speaking, the less stimulus, so when we get it into very, very low stimulus environments, those kids will be fidgety more. They'll have difficulty paying attention. And essentially, there's a theory that suggests that there's an optimal level of function for kids with ADHD, and they will stimulate or create different kinds of stimulus by moving around or making noises or wandering around or exploring things to try to get their threshold up to an optimal stimulus level. And if you provide appropriate stimuli, then the ADHD behaviors will actually go down. So the interesting thing about the white noise kind of perspective or warm brown noise or dark brown noise or whatever you call it, is that there is some scientific evidence that some amount of increased stimulus will actually help people with ADHD focus more, because you're sort of getting out of that low stimulus period where the ADHD is looking for something to kind of jump into. Now, the interesting thing is that this can be contrasted with too much stimulus. So we're going to take a quick look at what that looks like. I'm starving. Let's go to the kitchen. I still didn't put away the rest of the groceries. Okay, let's get that done quick. I forgot tortillas again. I want a quesadilla. Whatever. Is that bull still sitting there? So like notice what's happening here is this person moves around right there increasing the amount of stimulus that they have access to. Their mind is moving towards different things. They're kind of having trouble focusing right there doing a little bit of this and a little bit of that. How can she think of so many trains of thought at once? That's actually the challenge is that it's not really so many trains of thought at once. It's actually highly highly fluctuating thought. I have to get ready for that. I have that meeting soon. I should really go and get ready for that. So much work. Maybe it comes from the Latin word pilla. I feel like I'm forgetting something. Flowers, flowers. I need to go and put the flowers back. So I feel like I'm forgetting something. So this is like another good example of this stimulus balance. So what I found working with people with ADHD is that if you're under stimulated by your environment, your mind will start to wander and you'll try to create self stimulating kind of things. So you'll wiggle around, you'll fidget, you'll get distracted, stuff like that. And so the research on things like white noise suggests that what you can actually do is if you're under stimulated, what that's what you're going to do if you have ADHD or sometimes is that you'll create other stimuli for yourself to get to your optimal level. The interesting thing is that if you go above the optimal level, you have what we see in this next TikTok, which is an overstimulated environment where as you're getting, okay, I'm thinking about this grocery list. I'm thinking about this, you know, set of flowers. I got to do this. I got to take my pills. I got to unload my groceries. And so as you move around the environment, you're getting bombarded with lots of stimuli. And as you get bombarded with lots of stimuli, your ADHD symptoms can't really cope with that. And you can't focus on one thing. So if you want to sit down and do some work, what you actually find is that there's an optimal level of stimulus balance, which most people with ADHD will find. So white noise is a really good example of, you know, upping if you're on the low end, cleaning up your room and removing a lot of distracting stimuli is a good example of what you can do if you're overstimulated and getting distracted. But the key thing here is that it appears that through research on people with ADHD and people without ADHD, what we find is there's an optimal level of stimulus which allows you to focus best if you have ADHD. The really tricky thing I saw there was a question about social media and technology. What's really devastating is that we're living in a society now where technology is crippling people with ADHD. Because what happens is in the past, like let's say I'm trying to study and I'm in a library, and so as I'm understimulated, I'll start to get distracted and move around and things like that. The problem is with the easy access of technology and with how addictive technology is to the ADHD mind, it's really easy to slip into that stimulus and get caught up in it for hours at a time. So what's happening is as you try to focus with ADHD and you don't have enough stimulus, you'll reach for your phone. And then a 15-second distraction because of the way that things get populated and there's this post and that post, even as we're looking at TikTok, I want you all to notice what TikTok bombards me with, right? So like even as I look at this, there's just not one thing. There's some recommended videos over here with screenshots, all right? If I mouse over them, there's like more stimulus. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to look at this, I'm going to look at this, like I'm going to look at this stuff over here, there's comments. So what's happening right now is as my mind is seeking stimulus, it finds a ton of it if I slip into technology usage. And then the problem becomes, since these platforms are so good at accommodating my shifting attention, they reward me for clicking on lots of different things, right? And then I've got the central video, which then holds my attention for a minute and I click on this thing and I click on this thing and I click on this thing. So what we're sort of seeing in society is that people with ADHD are actually being crippled. Their symptoms are getting worse. More people are being diagnosed with it because technology sort of takes advantage of this lack of stimulus balance. So if you're someone who's kind of struggling with this, these are both very common experiences where some amount of increased stimulus, if it's kind of thoughtful and can't distract you, can actually improve your focus and there's research that actually supports that. And we also see the opposite as well, which is that if you're overstimulated and there's too much sensory input, that will actually worsen your symptoms. So there's even research that shows that people with ADHD who operate or try to work in clean spaces are able to focus more. And there's a bunch of stuff on, we kind of cover this in more detail in Dr. K's guide, but about top-down versus bottom-up kind of stimulus stuff and sort of attentional control. And so both of these things are kind of true, right? Where you're overstimulated, it's going to distract you. If you're understimulated, you're going to create distractions to get to your optimal stimulus balance. So if you're in this kind of situation, it's really important to think a little bit about, okay, what's my optimal stimulus balance and what are things that I can kind of do to increase it if I'm understimulated, but also use things that are not going to lead to further distractions like technology? What's the scientific evidence? So there's a lot of scientific evidence. It's two things that y'all can look at. One is, you know, we took a look at this paper, which is pretty preliminary, but there seems to be some evidence to support this. So y'all can look at the optimal stimulation theory and moderate brain arousal model. Those are two models that have been studied in ADHD. And for the other side, I would look at top-down versus bottom-up attentional control studies. So those are kind of the two things that we've sort of explored scientifically, which seem to have some support. Let's keep going. I thought you said you had a busy day today. Yeah, I'm in ADHD paralysis. What's that? My brain physically won't let me do anything. What caused it? Sometimes nothing causes it, but today it's because I have a package that's coming at 8 p.m. You can't do anything before that package comes. Yeah, I like to call it my waiting mode. You're not just being lazy. No, my brain's currently going like a thousand miles per hour telling me I should be doing things, but can't. Yeah, I'm in ADHD. So ADHD paralysis is a really interesting phenomenon. It's something that hasn't been that well studied. So like there are aspects of this that have been well studied and aspects of this that haven't been really that well studied. And what I tend to find is that when we look at things like ADHD paralysis, there's a lot of low quality information like opinions. This TikTok is actually pretty good because I think it's representative of people's experiences. But for example, a lot of people will correlate ADHD paralysis with procrastination. So they'll kind of say like, oh, I'm putting off tasks. I can't focus on anything. If you've got 10 things to do today and you're getting a package delivery at 8 p.m., I'm putting off those other things. So that feels like procrastination. So this, once again, is my opinion. I did some research into this phenomenon and really didn't find great scientific studies about this. So I think what we're doing is we're sort of learning more about novel features of ADHD as people are getting more diagnosed and it's becoming more of an issue, and especially adults with ADHD, because this kind of like task paralysis, if you look at the original research on ADHD, was done mostly in children. So ADHD for a long time was specifically kind of a childhood diagnosis. And as more and more adults are getting diagnosed with it, we're sort of discovering different manifestations of it. So what's going on with ADHD paralysis? So the first thing in my experience as a clinician, once again, this is an opinion, okay, what we do sort of know is that this probably has to do with an executive function deficit. So what we know about ADHD is that it's a neurodevelopmental disorder. And what that sort of means is that the brains of people with ADHD seem to develop in a different way. And one of the ways in which they develop differently is in their frontal lobes. So the frontal lobes are responsible for something called executive function. Executive function is our ability to plan and execute tasks. And people with ADHD struggle with this. So what's happening if we sort of take a neurotypical person is if they've got something to do at 8pm, what they can sort of do is like they can plan up to 8pm. So if I've got 10 things to do today, and one of them is 8pm, my brain is good at automatically sequencing those tasks. So I can do this at 10am, this at 1pm, this at 5pm, and this at 8pm. And all of my stuff will get done. I'll sort of be or I'll be efficient, you know, I'll leave six things for tomorrow, but I can get these four things done today. What we tend to find in executive dysfunction is that this sequencing is kind of a problem. And the simplest way that I would describe it in terms of my clinical work with people is that they sort of can't swap tasks. So once you have one task on deck, once you have like one active task, you can't table it for other tasks and come back to it later. So in my experience, this is actually a sequencing problem where once you've got something in your mind, you can't set it down and do other things. And so what this ends up as is what people call kind of colloquially ADHD paralysis or task paralysis, which is if I've got one thing at 3pm, I can't do anything else. And you may think, well, that sounds like a real problem, and it sort of is in terms of function, but there may actually be a very good reason for that. And that's where remember that if we get distracted, so this is the challenge with ADHD, if we get distracted, we may not remember things, we may not come back to things. Since our brain can't sequence and kind of execute on tasks in time, what we sort of do is our brain sort of almost learns that, okay, this is the task that I've got on deck. It's almost like your brain can't save something and close a document and open it up later. That if you come back to a task that you left alone, if you tried to close the document, it doesn't save any of the progress that you made, which is also another really, really common experience for people with ADHD, which is that they have difficulty with task completion, because any time they get distracted, when they go back to the task, they can't pick up where they left off. And so I want you to just think about this for a second. If your brain can't pick up efficiently where you left off, what is the adaptation going to actually be? Don't get distracted. Don't lose sight of it. You can't ever put it down. We're operating with a Word document or some kind of word processor that can never save. So what does that mean? That means once the task comes on deck, we have to hold on to it and we can't let anything else get in the way. So in my experience with working with people with ADHD, this ADHD paralysis actually has to do with an inability to sequence out and pick up tasks. So that's where there are the good news is that there are some organizational tools that you can sort of do and you can use. And this is something that I think this TikTok represents well, is that this person is just using their mind or their brain to do all the work. And this is what we kind of see if you look at actually treatment for ADHD. ADHD treatment is really interesting because a lot of what, if you look at cognitive behavioral therapy for ADHD, a lot of it is not like talking about your feelings or discussing your traumas or things like that. It's actually more education and teaching people how to build like a priority list, how to kind of get organized, how to build like a task list, how to build a to-do list, how to sort of make sure that those to-do lists have time anchors and things like that so you don't forget things, you don't end up with lateness. In our ADHD guide, which is coming out soon, for example, what we sort of focus on is helping people build to-do lists that protect against two things, forgetting tasks and being late on tasks. So any kind of organizational system that you have if you've got ADHD should protect against these two outcomes, is being late and forgetting. So stuff should be on time and it shouldn't be forgotten. So if you're struggling with ADHD paralysis, the first thing to kind of think about is think a little bit critically about whether this is the same as procrastination. Because in my experience, procrastination is putting off a task purposefully because you're avoiding something about the task. Either you're perfectionistic or there's some kind of emotion associated with it, whereas ADHD paralysis is actually a sequencing problem. It's not that you're putting off the other eight tasks because they're challenging in some way. It's that your brain is stuck on one task and since that's occupying so much of your RAM, you can't shift to something else. So those are actually two very different things and what I tend to find in people who associate ADHD with procrastination is that they're trying to solve the wrong thing, which is why their solutions don't work and they continue being stuck in ADHD paralysis. Does that make sense? Download more RAM. Great point. So this, y'all are joking when I see Drop Me Stuff is saying download more RAM, etc. Right? So Caspot Vaxx is saying download more RAM. Y'all are right that that is a solution for a while. So this is also something to understand. You know what? The download more RAM is the equivalent of in kids with ADHD is a high IQ. So this is what happens with kids with ADHD. They start to struggle in adulthood, especially the ones that are actually above average intelligence because what they do is they muscle their way through things using brute force extra resources. So imagine, for example, like I'm using a word processor and I can't save my documents. So what I'm going to do is put RAM into my computer so I can have more documents open at the same time. Right? So you're like literally investing more resources in an inefficient process, which is exactly what happens with smart kids with ADHD. They just brute force use intelligence. I can't pay attention to class. So what I have to do is use cognitive reasoning, inductive reasoning, deductive reasoning to answer questions. When the teacher calls on me, I want you to really think about this. If you're a kid with ADHD, when the teacher calls on you and you're not paying attention, the miraculous thing is that a lot of ADHD kids know the right answer anyway, even though they're not paying attention. And how do they know the right answer? Because they look around, they're like, oh crap, the teacher called on me. They look around, they look at what's on the board. Oh, we're doing math class. I see a problem on the board. They're asking me a question. Let me figure out what the answer is. This is the answer and you say it in five seconds. And the teacher's like, okay, I guess you were paying attention. No, you weren't paying attention. You were brute forcing things with extra IQ. This is actually what's really, really sad about kids with ADHD is that as they download more and more RAM, they fill up all of their, you know, motherboard slots with RAM to try to compensate for not being able to save documents. The problem is at some point your motherboard fills up and as your motherboard fills up and you can't brute force it anymore, you're stuck with all of this RAM and the inability to save documents. So this usually happens in adulthood for kids who are very, very intelligent and have ADHD and they hit a wall because suddenly you can't pack any more RAM, right? Like you hit this really hard wall and that's what's actually really devastating because this entire time, sometimes they'll even get IQ tested, right? You'll take this five-year-old kid with like very high expectation parents and they'll get them IQ tested at the age of five. Oh, the child is gifted. Your child has an IQ of 140, a bunch of expectation, extra classes, AP classes, gifted and talented classes, and the kid is struggling, struggling, struggling, struggling because they have no hard drive. They've got no hard drive and they're just packing in RAM, packing in RAM, packing in RAM. And so their life becomes harder and harder and harder, but actually because they're so exceptional, they can manage it up until a point. But at some point you gotta have a hard drive, you gotta have disk space, you can't store everything in RAM, and that's what they run into. It's a hard stop for these people. It's so challenging. Make sense? Let's move on. Great, but I love the meme-ish comments. You all don't realize how epic your comments actually are. I got three looks and that's it. Could I interest you in everything all of the time? A little bit of everything all of the time. Well, well, look who's inside again. CEO, entrepreneur. Oftentimes ADHD will manifest with different symptoms, right? So people will say, oh, I've got three looks. I've got oversharing, talking too much, and zoning out. The interesting thing is that I think all three of those are actually kind of the same thing. So even when you're zoning out, what's going on? There's a bunch of stuff going on in here, right? So there's oversharing, which is like talking too much, right? Or like you're talking too fast and people aren't really able to pay attention. But even when you're zoning out, it's the same process. It's just whether your mouth is opening and you're emitting sound or not, right? But mentally the process is the same. It's just you've got two modes. We've got communication mode or we've got silent mode. But on the inside, it's actually the same distractible high speed kind of thought process. Does that make sense? Is this also relatable to people without ADHD or do I maybe? So this is exactly why we stream this kind of stuff. So remember these are TikToks, right? These are not diagnostic evaluations or diagnostic criteria or things like this. But if this kind of stuff resonates with you, I think it's very reasonable to go get a clinical evaluation for something like ADHD. So remember that ADHD is a spectrum, okay? Attention is a spectrum. So there's people who have very good attention. People have highly distractible attention. If it's impairing your function, then it's more likely to be a disorder, right? So that's generally speaking the line that we draw in psychiatry is does it impair your function or not? But the other thing, the other reason that we're doing this is because what we're finding is that attention spans seem to be decreasing. We know that epidemiologically, the diagnosis of ADHD seems to be on the rise, but that begs a really interesting question. Are more people having ADHD or are we just getting better at diagnosing it? Is the amount of people who have ADHD actually has been the same, but we used to miss a bunch of people and now we're just catching them? So the diagnosis rate is increasing, but it's a little bit fuzzy. Is there more awareness of it or is something happening in our society, is something in the water, is something happening with technology that is making us more ADHD? And I suspect that the answer is actually a combination of both and that if you look at things like the, what can I say, like the progression of attention span on the internet, it's getting shorter. So there used to be blogs and they've been replaced by tweets. And now it's kind of funny because we've gone so far on that side that now that we have twitlongers and on Twitter, we'll have like these Twitter threads, right? One out of nine, two out of nine, three out of nine, so you're kind of swinging back the other way. If you look at things like YouTube videos used to be whole videos and then we had vines for a little while and then we had video essays and things like that. And now we're moving towards YouTube shorts, Twitch clips, TikToks, things like that, shorter form content, shorter form content. So probably I suspect that it's actually due to technology, but I also think we're getting better at diagnosing it. So if this stuff resonates with you, I highly encourage you to go get evaluated because ADHD, here's the other thing, clinical opinion here, but in my experience, ADHD is the most overdiagnosed and simultaneously the most underdiagnosed psychiatric illness. What does that mean? How can something be overdiagnosed and underdiagnosed? It's because we miss ADHD in a lot of people. It's underdiagnosed because we have the smart kids who compensate, right? So they have ADHD, but since they compensate with IQ, we miss the diagnosis. The other reason that it's overdiagnosed is that there's studies that show that, for example, the more kids in a classroom, the more likely they are to get diagnosed with ADHD. So when you have other kinds of attentional problems, when you've got, you know, parents who, for example, don't teach their kids to sit down and study and they go to school and like they don't have enough individual support, they'll get diagnosed with ADHD, started on medication and sent out the door. So we get a lot of misdiagnosis, overdiagnosis and a lot of mis- underdiagnosis. So now I'm saying go get evaluated. What I'm seeing is a lot of people are getting pushed around in terms of getting diagnosed. So, you know, one person is saying, I tried talking to my doctor, but he rolled his eyes and referred me to psychiatry who said they were going to call me back three months ago. So I would follow up. So I think this is what's really challenging is that there's a lack of mental health resources and professionals based on the size of mental health problems. Someone else is talking about being in a queue in Brazil for getting a diagnosis, things like that. So just to- this is unfortunate, right? What's happened is for a long, long time, like let's say 100 years or so, medicine, the field of medicine has heavily over, I would say in an imbalanced way, over invested in physical medicine. So what happened is we left kind of psychiatry and mental health by the wayside. And so that's- it's sort of okay in a sense because there were bigger problems, right? So we were focused on heart disease and cancer, but about 10 years ago, actually, mental health rose to the top in terms of highest amount of morbidity and mortality, I think in the U.S. and globally as well. So mental health actually causes more damage to our society than cancer and heart disease, which used to be number one and number two. So I think that we're really lagging behind in terms of like getting resources. And this is the real challenge is when I say go see a therapist or go see a psychiatrist, go get evaluated. The fact that there isn't enough supply, unfortunately, doesn't change the right answer. Right? This is what's really tricky about the world today is like the right answer is to still, if you've got a attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, you probably need clinical help, right? Like it's kind of like saying, okay, like if I've got a heart attack and the emergency room is full, what do I do then? It's not like there's an, like you need to go to the emergency room. This is a systemic problem. It's a fault of society that these wait lists are so long, that so many countries have poor understanding about mental health, that we're under resourced to deal with mental health. And like it sucks to be alive in this kind of world where you need services and they're not available. Right? But the truth of the matter is that like you still got to get evaluated. If you concerned, you have ADHD. If it takes three months, it takes three months. That's the kind of thing where as a clinician, I can tell you it's going to drastically alter getting mental health treatment early, drastically alters your course in life. Three months may feel like a long time, but we know this in terms of, for example, early interventions for schizophrenia. Or if you can catch it early, you can actually substantially alter the course of this person's life. You can help them graduate from college. And then a college degree allows you to get different jobs. Different jobs allow you to form different kinds of relationships, allow you to build a life that's worth living. So early intervention is really important. So I know it can take a long time. I'm sorry that y'all are in that situation. I wish I could do more, right? We're doing what we can in terms of AOE, but go see a professional, even if it takes a while and stay on top of it, because this could be really important. What people think hyperfocus is, hey man, you want to go waste some time? No, not now. I'm hyper focusing. Wow. I gave up on that problem hours ago. Incredible. Hyperfocus can seem like a superpower. What hyperfocus actually feels like. Hey buddy, you've been at it for a while. Jesus Christ, was that your stomach? What? The eye of Sauron. Dude, when's the last time you ate? I don't know. I'm almost done. Can you just go away? Okay. Hey, just eat this, okay? Yeah, dude, that's devastating. This is something that's going around nowadays, is this concept of hyperfocus. What people tend to find is that even if you have ADHD, you're able to enter periods of intense focus on a particular thing. Now, some studies have hypothesized that this is similar to the flow state. I think there's a lot of merit to those. I've worked with people who have ADHD who have entered periods of hyperfocus that have been very, very productive. There are different perspectives though. One is, we're going to talk about something called perseveration. Perseveration is the inability to shift your attention. This is something that people sometimes forget about ADHD, is that it's an attentional disorder. It's not necessarily an inattentional disorder. It's attention deficit, hyperactivity disorder or attention deficit disorder. There are two dimensions of attention. One is the ability to get distracted or not get distracted. One is the ability to focus on something and not get distracted by something else. That's what we usually think about. If we watch the earlier TikTok about the girl walking around and getting distracted by a thousand things, we think about the inability to hold your attention in a particular place is what ADHD is. There's another side to that coin, which is perseveration or hyperfocus, which I still think of as a problem, and we'll talk about that in a second, which is the inability to let go of something. Here's the real problem with hyperfocus, is that it's generally speaking not controllable. That's where what I tend to find when I work with people with ADHD is that they're looking to harness that in a consistent way. They're like, oh, if I can just hyperfocus, then everything would be so awesome. If I could hyperfocus every day, everything would be great. I just need to figure out how to hyperfocus better, hyperfocus better, hyperfocus better. The whole challenge of hyperfocus if you have ADHD is that you can't control it. You're looking for this thing, looking for this thing every once in a blue moon. It shows up and you hyperfocus on your exam, and you get a bunch of programming done and stuff like that. I've worked with engineers and stuff at very prestigious firms, developers, and they're like, oh, if I can harness it, sometimes I'll show up at 8 p.m. and then I'll hyperfocus through the night, and I'll get all of my coding done for the whole week. They go around trying to chase these kinds of hyperfocusing episodes. This is the kind of thing where I think it's kind of tricky, because is this perseveration, is it a sign of illness, or is it useful? That's where I want you all to remember that there are features for diagnosable psychiatric illnesses that can actually be beneficial. Generally speaking, when we think about diagnosable psychiatric illnesses, part of the reason that they exist is because they are a hyperactivation of a useful feature. Another good example of this is something like hypomania. So hypomania and bipolar disorder allows people to be functional with two to four hours of sleep a night. So what we tend to see is that people who are functional with two to four hours of sleep a night can accomplish amazing things until the hypomania crashes into a depressive episode, and then for six months getting out of bed is a struggle. So hyperfocus can be useful. Some people can sort of align it in kind of a productive way, but generally speaking, what I tend to find is that if you have a choice between random periods of hyperfocus on random tasks too, because you can't necessarily hyperfocus on what you need to hyperfocus on. In fact, a huge problem with ADHD, especially if you talk to people like parents, is like their kid will perseverate with Legos. They need to do their homework, but they can sit and focus on Legos for eight hours at a time, or they can play Minecraft for 14 hours at a stretch without food or water or whatever. And so if you could shift that to studying, imagine what you could accomplish. And there are people who are able to sort of find some happy medium there, but generally speaking, I think this is a more accurate representation of hyperfocus. Because if you look at these different kinds of blogs and stuff like that, they'll talk about, oh, you know, like harnessing hyperfocus for your optimal productivity and like accomplish, like make $6,000 an hour if you just like hyperfocus properly, right? And take these nootropics and buy my book, by the way, and use these supplements. They'll enhance your hyperfocus with ADHD. Pay me money, and the dream that you crave will be come true. You can hyperfocus whenever you want. And there's a part of that that may be real, right? There's a part of that about cultivating hyperfocus, cultivating the flow state, which is probably somewhat similar. But we've got to be really careful because sometimes this can really cross over into perseveration. And in my experience, hyperfocus is more like winning the lottery than it is about, you know, having a salary. It's like every now and then it really, the stars align and you can do a lot, but it's just not a consistent, there's just a lack of consistency to it. So this is what's super challenging about it. So, you know, this is the kind of thing where when I work with people who struggle with any kind of diagnosis, there are oftentimes certain parts that are advantageous, which I know sounds kind of weird. And it's fine to try to cultivate those parts and sort of emphasize those parts and things like that. But this is also the kind of thing where you got to be a little bit careful. I mean, if you try it for a while, it's really not working. Then I'd recommend something else, right? Instead of trying to make the stars align over and over and over again, maybe get some treatment, maybe do something about it, maybe alter, you know, your focus on building your attention, meditate more, build your executive function so that you can control your attention a little bit better. So all the kind of treatments or other kinds of supportive things that you can do can still be helpful. Questions? Ginger Tonica say, not me hyper focusing on the stream while I plan to clean my house. Absolutely right. This is the challenge. I want to play games, but got distracted by the stream. I don't know if that's a win or a loss for you. So there are a lot of questions about things like building executive function. How do I read books with ADHD? So let me try to summarize this. So there's like, the key thing is that we break this down in a lot of complexity because this is a complex issue. We break this down. This is why we built a guide, right? So we made a guide that's like 20 hours of stuff around ADHD and how to build executive function and all this kind of stuff. But I'll try to give you all a summary. So here's my general approach to working with someone with ADHD. There are some things that you can level up your brain for. And the key thing about ADHD is you can't just level up your brain. A big part of protecting against ADHD is not just improving your executive function. It's actually creating external systems to accommodate for whatever weaknesses you have in your brain. It's an oversimplification, but that's generally how I think about it. And this is where like, this is true for I think kind of anyone, right? This isn't just exclusive for ADHD. Any kind of, any human being has a unique cognitive fingerprint that has particular strengths and particular weaknesses. And this is where if you want to think about how to be successful, that's where you've got to level up some of those weaknesses. But a big part of it is actually accounting for some of those weaknesses in other ways. So let's say I'm running a company and I'm really, really good at operations, but I'm not great at creative thinking. So I can try to boost my creative thinking to a certain amount, but there's going to be a certain point where the most ideal solution is that I partner with someone who's good at the creative thinking, and then we work together. So it's using external things in addition to leveling yourself up. So just to give you all a simple example of this, like how we pair these together, when I'm working with people with ADHD, I'll teach them to meditate, which is one of the simplest ways to boost executive function. And that too, I personally believe this is less not scientifically supported. So the studies are on mindfulness and people garble all the different interventions. They don't like, just call it all mindfulness, but you can do very different things. One will be a month or a meditation. One will be some observing your breath, whatever. So in my experience, particular meditations are more effective for attentional problems compared to depression or anxiety or whatever. So you can use meditation to boost your executive function, but a key part of that is also like getting organized, learning how to prioritize, building a to-do list that protects you from getting distracted. So it's like using notifications and calendars and things like that. So you don't have to level up your brain so much that some of it you can actually gear up on the outside. There's the stats that you level up, and then there's the gear that you equip, and the damage that you do, or the power of your heels or things like that. All that stuff is a combination of stats plus gear. And when it comes to figuring out your ADHD, that's the attitude that I take. That's the approach that I take. Some stuff you've got to level up, but some stuff you've got to externally gear, and it'll do the work for you. And the problem is that a lot of times with people with ADHD, all they want to do is level up. They're running around like deprived, running around with a loincloth and no weapons and just jacking up their strength stat as much as they can so they can start punching people in a video game. And it's like at some point, you want to equip a weapon if you want to increase your DPS. You can jack up your stats as much as you want to. It's just not going to be that efficient. And when we see real progress, and this is where if you look at the evidence-based psychotherapies that we have for ADHD, a lot of it is actually not about leveling yourself up or doing any kind of internal work. A lot of it is about gearing up properly. So someone else is asking, what if I was told as a child I have ADHD, but I'm good at getting things done, remembering things, staying organized now, was I misdiagnosed? I can't say whether you're misdiagnosed or not because I don't know if you meet the diagnostic criteria today and I don't know if you met the diagnostic criteria before. There's a lot of stuff that goes into the diagnosis of ADHD. What I can say is a couple of interesting principles. The first is, remember I said that ADHD is one of the most overdiagnosed illnesses in my experience, so it's possible you're misdiagnosed. The other thing to remember is that ADHD can, generally speaking, small percentage of people, we're talking 25% of people or less, will grow out of ADHD. Remember that ADHD is an executive function deficit. The executive function comes from the frontal lobes, and the frontal lobes develop until you're about 30 or 32. What we tend to find is that as people grow up, they can look like they have ADHD before, but as their frontal lobes develop, they can essentially grow out of it. The unfortunate thing is that as you really look at good epidemiologic studies on what percentage of people grow out of it, unfortunately it's the minority of people. Were you misdiagnosed? I don't know. You could have been misdiagnosed. You could have been someone who was appropriately diagnosed but grew out of it because your frontal lobes developed, or you could be someone who still neurodevelopmentally has ADHD but has developed the appropriate compensatory mechanisms you've geared up enough to where ADHD doesn't affect you. That's what we see in treatment with ADHD, that when you do, for example, CBT with ADHD and you help people build these organizational systems and stuff like that, they no longer meet criteria for the disease in terms of impairment of function. It doesn't cure your ADHD because it doesn't change your brain, but you gear up enough to where you can do DPS fine. Great question. you