 Sounds nice. Great, it's trailer Apple, take two. How do you feel, Olive? Oh, look at me, I'm a doctor. Oh, doctor. You know, I like to gesticulate. Let's try a different one. Look at take two, any comment? Mark. All right, let's settle. Hi, I'm Dr. K. Should I, I'm Olive, Olive Kanoja, right? Yeah. Hi, my name is Olive Kanoja. My name is? I'm excited to introduce my guide. It sounds, ooh, it's mine. All right, can I just say I'm? I'm. I'm Dr. K. Let's go, come on. Welcome to Dr. K's guide. On your journey of loving, no, sorry, living in peace. Healing. Healing. Will help you on your journey of loving and living. So what we've tried to do is weave these different perspectives, threaded these different perspectives. Who wrote this? You did. Oh my God. Look, I can do, like I can do the actual teaching, but this kind of stuff is just feels weird. Like this, I can't do. You want me to do it? Yeah, go for it. Okay, I got you. You want to try? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got you, I got you. It's all yours. You guys have her now. Hey guys, I want to tell you a little bit about the latest addition to Dr. K's guide to mental health. My name is Kriti, I'm the CEO of Healthy Gamer. I have watched Ollog for about a year, spent every waking minute researching trauma. The team has pulled over 200 studies. 400 actually. 400 studies. Trauma is the missing link, I think, for this community. We've been lucky enough to support thousands of mental health journeys all over the internet. And it's heartbreaking really to see how much trauma there is in this community. So it's gonna take you through the physiology, the emotions, relationships, spiritual perspectives, and clinical perspectives. Everything you need to know to really just move step by step. It's really such a privilege to be able to get to do this with and for you guys. It's made with a lot of love. I really hope it helps. All the information you need is in the links below. Thanks. Nice. That is so much better. That was really good, that was fun. Let's get this shot. Welcome to Dr. K's Guide to Trauma. That sounds weird.