 Today, we're going to talk about how to learn from our mistakes. And this may sound like a really simple thing, but if you really stop and think about it, this is something that I struggled with and a lot of people struggle with because sometimes we do things right that we know aren't correct, but we keep doing them. As an example, I'll wake up and the first thing that I'll do is get on my phone or start playing a video game or start browsing Reddit. And I know in the back of my mind that once I start doing this, my day is ruined. We know that we should be exercising more. And then we exercise one day, right? And when you exercise for one day, you feel so much better. And you're like, wow, this is amazing. I have so much more energy. But then the next day rolls around and you seem to forget that. I want to take a moment to thank our HG coaches. I've taught at a lot of different places and worked with a lot of different people. And honestly, our coaches are some of the best people I've ever worked with. HG coaches have helped over 10,000 people find purpose, direction and improve their mental health. After about 20 weeks of coaching, the average client experiences a 58% improvement in sense of purpose in life, a 45% improvement in feelings of anxiety, and even a 35% reduction in feelings of despair. And this isn't just me saying this. At this point, we've done this for three years, run six research studies and even presented our findings at the American Psychiatric Association National Conference. Over 100,000 sessions later, I can confidently say this works. So if you're interested in checking out HG coaching for yourself, go to healthygamer.gg slash coaching to learn more. And this is a huge problem in society today because we know what we should be doing. And every once in a while, we actually do it. But when we do it, despite the positive reinforcement, we don't seem to implement changes in our life. It's almost like there is a subconscious block from what we know we should be doing. And despite all this evidence, we don't seem to be able to learn. And if you want to understand this phenomenon, it turns out that you need to understand the science of neurogenesis. So this is something that we've got to take a step back and understand. Generally speaking, when we are born, most of the neurogenesis, which is the development of brain cells, is already done. So we don't really grow a whole lot of new brain cells. This is why patients who have strokes, kind of like that part of your brain doesn't really regenerate. So sometimes strokes will lead to permanent deficits. It turns out that there's one part of the brain in which we see neurogenesis, and that's in the hippocampus. The hippocampus is the part of our brain that governs learning and memory. And so it would make sense that if we're going to create new neurons, the one part of our brain where we would do that is where we learn new things and form new memories. If I learn to play an instrument at the age of 20 or, you know, I go on vacation at the age of 30 or if I have my first child, I'm constantly forming new memories and learning new things. And so it also makes sense that if that neurogenesis in the hippocampus is inhibited in some way, then we may not be able to learn from our mistakes. And this is exactly what happens. There's a really cool experiment that scientists did, which was published in the journal Nature around how rats learn and more importantly, what inhibits their learning. So the experiment goes like this. We drop a rat in a pool of shallow water where there's one platform where the rat can rest. So it has to swim around, swim around, swim around until it finds the platform. So let's say the platform is in the top right. So over time, what happens is the rats will learn, right? So I drop them into the water, they swim, they discover where the platform is. The next time I drop them in the water, they swim around, they discover where the platform is. But over time, three or four times, they figure out, oh, OK, there's a platform right here. So they swim straight to it. Then the scientists do something tricky. They move the location of the platform. And what they discovered is that there are two kinds of mice. There are some mice that if we move it from the top right to, let's say, the bottom left, there are some mice that when we drop in, they keep on making the same mistake. They look for the platform in the top right. They keep swimming there, keep swimming there. They start to get distressed. They're worried. They don't seem to be learning from their mistakes. And on the flip side, there are other mice that sort of figure out, OK, the platform is no longer here. Let me go look for it somewhere else. And they're able to find the new location of the platform. And the second time you drop them in, third time you drop them in, they go straight back to where the safe space is. So there's two kinds of mice here, and one seems to be learning from their mistakes and one doesn't. And it turns out that this also goes to neurogenesis. What they sort of discover is that some mice will code a particular kind of behavior. And then they are unable to wipe that behavior clean and sort of re-encode a new form of behavior. On the other hand, some mice are able to wipe that old behavior clean and replace it with more optimal behavior. Sounding familiar? This is the problem that a lot of us face, right? Where we sort of learned a particular thing like, hey, it's actually OK to play video games. It doesn't cost me very much. But then as I get older, it starts to cost me more and starts to cost me more and starts to cost me more. And I may be consciously aware of it, but it's like something deeper in my brain is not able to learn that lesson. So what separates the mice that are able to learn from the mice that aren't? And it turns out there's one thing. It's not willpower. It's not motivation. It's not some kind of supplement that you can order online. It's actually fasting. So this is really interesting. Why is it fasting? Let's think about it for a second. OK. What is the one evolutionary signal that our brain needs to signal to us that, hey, this strategy is not working? How does the brain know that, hey, we need to rethink how we approach this and we need to learn a new way of handling this? It turns out that the most powerful signal to rewire your brain is starvation, because a million years ago, when our brains evolved, that here's the sort of idea, right? So like if I'm living my life and everything is going really well, then we're fine. We don't need to change anything, because if it ain't broke, don't fix it. How does our brain know that we're starting to screw up when we can't find food anymore? Because our brains have evolved for survival, right? Not to live in this digital age where we're bombarded with all the stimuli. And so what's going on in today's society? We're actually inhibiting the starvation and fasting signals that induce neurogenesis. So the number one thing that causes neurogenesis is actually fasting or starvation, because this is our brains way of saying, hey, this crap is no longer working because we're starving. And since this is no longer working, we need to wipe the slate clean and learn a new way of functioning. But what's happening in today's society? No matter how many mistakes you make, chances are you're still getting high calorically dense food. So what's happening in your brain, even though on a conscious level you're recognizing, man, my life is going nowhere or I keep on winding up in the wrong relationships or I wake up every day and I play video games. If you're ordering calorically dense food from like Uber Eats or Doordash or whatever, if I'm eating pizza at the end of the day or I'm eating all this calorie dense food, what does my brain actually think about the situation? It's like, hey, bro or girl, we don't have to worry about anything because we're still getting calorically dense, very rich food. We've won the game of life because we're still getting this really nutrient rich food. And when we get nutrient rich food, what it literally does is inhibit neurogenesis in the hippocampus, which prevents us from learning from our mistakes. And this sort of makes sense, right? Because what our experience of this is, is that we consciously know that's the cerebral cortices. It's like the top level of our brain. We know there's a problem. But somehow what we understand up here is not changing our wiring down below. And that's exactly what we see with neurogenesis. So now, how do you fast? So this is also where I think we're starting to see a lot of kind of corroboration from the kinds of fasts that people do. So the first thing is when we're talking about fasting, one of the sensitive signals there is actually glucose or sugar. This is part of the reason why I think we're seeing a bunch of low carb or minimal carb or ketogenic diets, because if you kind of look at these people, right, who are like on ketogenic diets and stick with it, they seem to be like crushing things, not just in terms of their diet, but in terms of the rest of their life. Right. These are oftentimes motivated people who are doing better at school. They're doing better at work. So if you're trying to figure out how to fast, a couple of things to consider is low carbohydrate intake probably will help induce neurogenesis. There are also other things you can do, like exercise and stuff like that. And that helps induce neurogenesis. The second thing to consider is that, you know, you have to be a little bit careful about how to fast. So if you're thinking about doing some drastic form of fasting, like a three day water fast, I would definitely talk to a doctor before you do that. But basically any kind of caloric restriction. So if we're talking about 1800 calories a day, we'll probably start to induce these signals. Low carbohydrates will probably try to induce these signals. And the third thing that you all can try is actually something like intermittent fasting. And this catches on pretty easily because basically you restrict your eating to eight hours a day. And in eight hours a day, it's hard to actually eat 2000 calories. So if y'all are struggling to figure out why can't I learn from your mistakes? And it may feel to you like something is busted, like, even though, you know, on some level, it's like there's another part of you that refuses to learn from your mistakes. And it turns out that if we look at the science of neurogenesis, that is exactly what is going on. And so what you actually probably need to do is start inducing neurogenesis. And if you can do that, what you'll literally find is that you're able to learn from your mistakes, that what you understand up here translates down into the rest of your brain and the rest of your life. There's one last thing that I have to throw in. If y'all are looking for proof of this concept, there are actually studies done on cognitive flexibility, which, remember, is correlated with neurogenesis and people who play video games. And what we discover is that gamers who have higher levels of cognitive flexibility are higher rank. In fact, there's only one cognitive variable that correlates with rank in League of Legends, and that is actually your cognitive flexibility. So not only will you be able to learn from your mistakes when you start learning from your mistakes, you'll actually climb the ranks within gaming and probably within the rest of your life.