 Let's talk a little bit about toxicity. So one of the things that gamers struggle with is that their brains are so used to like the more you play games and men especially are are really good at this. We're really good at suppressing our emotions and games actually shut off our emotional circuitry. And so what happens is games gamers become something called alexithymic. So alexithymia is the inability to recognize your internal emotional state. And so what happens is a lot of gamers actually are their emotions rolling around inside of them but they're not aware of them because they're parts of their brain that are kind of suppressing them all the time. So let's say that like you know I get into a fight with my parents and then I turn on a video game and then like all those emotions just get shut off. And so a lot of times what happens with gamers is that they feel like everything is fine. They feel like oh yeah they're happy and they're healthy and they enjoy gaming. But what actually happens is they have a lot of subsurface emotions that they're not even aware of and that's what alexithymia is. And then what happens is those those emotions kind of bubble to the surface and start to impact their life. So what ends up happening is when they're alexithymic is gamers get this illusion that they're not actually experiencing negative emotions. And a lot of gamers that I talk to I'll ask them like you know you know what's your relationship with your emotions. I mean I won't ask that because that's a weird question like I don't know how even I would answer that. But the more I ask them about essentially the relationship to their emotions what they come back with is that oh I'm in control of my emotions. And so when we talk about that like the funny thing about gamers is that they they feel like they're in control of their emotions. And by control of their emotions what that means is that they can watch like let's say a sad movie and like everyone else around them is crying but they're not crying. And so they're also like able to be in uncomfortable situations and like be kind of essentially like a blank slate. And so if we really think about it what that means is that a lot of gamers it's not that they're in control of their emotions like Vulcans. What that really means is that they're just they they just know how to suppress their emotions. And as those emotions get suppressed it's kind of like this this emotional like pile is like building and building and building inside you. And I'll give you guys kind of an example for my personal life. Like I remember feeling like a failure right. So I would wake up every day I would skip class. I would like game until I was exhausted and I'd like pass out at four in the morning. And every day that went by I'd feel more and more like a failure. And the only way that I could get I could tolerate those feelings was by escaping through gaming. And then I kind of I kind of like I kind of got stuck because what would happen is like every day that goes by I'm not moving forward in life and I'm actually failing in life more and more and more and more. And the only way that I could so like day one let's say I feel like a failure five out of ten and day two it's six out of ten because now I've fucked up for two days. Day three is seven out of ten. And so I'm digging myself deeper and deeper and deeper and the more and more failure I feel inside me the more I have to turn to video games to like make that feeling of failure go away. And so the more I turn to video games the less for I mean the more stuck I get and so it's this vicious cycle. And so gamers kind of get into this and so the only way that I can get out of this and into this and so the only way that they learn how to manage their emotions because gaming leads to escapism is through playing video games. And so they have this gigantic pile of emotion that's building up. And I remember for me sometimes like there are some moments and if you guys really pay attention to your lives maybe you can find out like when are these moments. But for me there were some moments that the emotions would just come flooding back and be like completely overwhelming. And for me that was when I was going to bed at night. Right so I like finished gaming and if I got into bed and like my mind would start to wander it would start to think about how I was screwing up my life. And I would feel such an overwhelming sense of hopelessness shame and guilt that it was like intolerable. So what I had to do was game so much until I got so mentally exhausted that when I hit the sack I would just pass out.