 So one of the really confusing things about depression is trying to figure out where exactly it comes from. Every human being that has ever existed experiences negative emotions. We have to understand how we kind of carry them forward in our subconscious mind. We have to start by differentiating what's actually a clinical illness from a mindset or an outlook on life, because each one has a drastically different solution. This module is designed to mirror how I actually work with people who are suffering from depression. By looking at the neuroscience, the gut biology, the sort of spirituality of depression, we can give you a roadmap that you can use to tackle your individual depression. One branch of the module explains the basics of clinical depression. Humans have this special capacity where I can stand over here and look at my thinking. What happens in depression is that people are stuck thinking about themselves and thinking negative things about themselves. Down the non-clinical track, we'll explore existential, or what I call congruent depression. The depressed mind dwells in the past and is sort of filled with regret. Where does your dissatisfaction come from? Why do you stay stuck every day? Every night when you go to bed, you promise yourself that tomorrow will be different. And every morning when you wake up, it's the same damn thing over and over and over again. So how do you fix that? We'll cover common psychiatric treatments and scientifically validated treatments, as well as holistic approaches to depression. How depression can affect the body, the mind, and even the spirit, and how we can intervene on each of those layers to give us a comprehensive approach to depression. For more information, visit www.cdc.gov.uk