 In psychiatry, we tend to talk about anxiety like a generic term, right? And also, societally, we just toss around this word anxiety. I have anxiety, you have anxiety, I got diagnosed with anxiety, I diagnosed that person with anxiety. And it's kind of like super generic, right? Because if I diagnose two people with anxiety disorder, then I give them the same kinds of treatments, and it's all sort of like a one-size-fits-all approach to understanding anxiety. But in my experience, that's actually not the case. If we look at individual humans, what their mind chooses to be anxious about tends to be pretty unique. Anxiety has a particular route for different people. If we can understand the route of anxiety, it sort of doesn't matter what's above ground and how it manifests, because we're going to be tackling it from its source. And the simple truth is that our anxiety is learned. It's actually something that our mind is taught to produce. What is your goal? This module is really designed to mirror how I actually work with people with anxiety. Our goal here is going to be to explore all of these diagnostic options. Where does anxiety come from? How does it manifest? And how can we really make a specific and tailored plan so that you can tackle your unique blend of anxiety? Down the non-clinical track, we'll draw more on the wisdom of meditative traditions. We'll explore how anxiety comes from the body and the mind, and how we can use tools like breath to literally physiologically reduce our anxiety.