 When I teach people meditation, what I try to start with is the idea that each person is individual, each person is unique. And in my experience, the most successful meditation practices are sort of tailored to the actual person who's doing the meditating. We'll go through how meditation as a practice evolved, where it started, how it branched and even where mindfulness was born. Because mindfulness isn't actually all of what meditation has to offer. In fact, it's a tiny, tiny fraction of the tradition of meditation. We sort of explore these core questions like what is the nature of a human being? What makes up a person? And as we discover who we are, we find ourselves unshackled from a lot of the things that hold us back. These thoughts like, I am a failure or I'm unlovable or that person is better than me. All stem from not understanding what we really are. And we'll explore different kinds of meditation. Inquisitive practices versus focusing practices. Open awareness meditation where you observe your thoughts versus chanting a mantra. And how each of these practices gives you different benefits and is suited for different kinds of people. And so our approach in this module is to give you the best of what all of these traditions have to offer. To give you lots of different meditation techniques that are targeted towards particular realizations or overcoming different kinds of problems. So I really hope that this module will be helpful for you. And I hope that it'll also be fun.