 I used to have a passion in competitive gaming and I can't really transition that into anything in real life. Trying to find my dharma doesn't really work for me because I don't feel like I care about anything else. What can I do? Great question. Okay. So I'm going to tell you guys a story about dharma in a little bit. And then because everyone's wondering how do you find your dharma. Okay. So I think that the problem is that your options to transition in real life are insufficient. They're like too low level. So generally speaking when people are competitive in gaming, they tend to be very skilled. They're very dedicated, very intelligent. And their options in the real world don't actually challenge them sufficiently. So I think that the biggest thing, the first thing that you should do is try to find the hardest thing that you can do in real life. Like don't just get a job. I mean if you need to get a job bagging groceries, like get a job bagging groceries. But I would say like there are all kinds of certifications and stuff that you can get now. Like get Google Analytics like certified, like get Google Analytics SEO certified or something like that. You have to decide what it is for you. But find something that's actually difficult and actually engaging. You know, like there may be like you may be able to find like one of these like day trading sweatshops like go hang out there. Go like see what those people are doing. Go challenge yourself. I don't know where you are. But if there are any startups in the area, like reach out to startups and say like, hey, are you guys looking for an intern? Go and do something that actually challenges you. And don't worry so much about finding your dharma right now. Like it's this is also, you know, we were talking to Sky and Sky sort of has this idea that like once he loses weight, then he can create all this content. So in this person's question, I used to have a passion in competitive gaming and I can't really transition that into anything in real life. Trying to find my dharma doesn't really work for me because I don't feel like I care about anything else. What can I do? This person has this idea that once they find their dharma, everything is going to be easy. It's delaying action until the perfect set of circumstances, which is something that gamers do all the time. Right? I'm going to apply to college when I know I can get into Harvard. And until that happens, I'm not even going to apply. Right? I'm going to go to the gym. This is my favorite. I'm going to go to the gym once I'm in shape. That's the best one. That's my favorite. Right? I'm going to go to the gym once I don't feel embarrassed to be there. Brilliant, right? I've thought it. Have you guys thought it? It's fucking crazy. It's stupid. But we all think that way. We all think like, okay, my life begins once I get to this point. No, your life begins today. It's just a way shittier version than what you're envisioning. That's the problem. But that's okay. So do something. I tell this person to do something and do something challenging. Try to find the most challenging thing that you can and do that thing. I think like, I mean, so Google and like Microsoft and a couple of these other companies no longer require college degrees. They just want people who are able to do shit. And cool thing is like we live in this world. I know I'm a boomer. So this may be news to me. Like apparently all you kids know about this thing called the internet. And you can learn all kinds of stuff on the internet. Like you can learn finance, you can learn economics, you can even learn a lot of medicine. You can learn a lot on the internet. You can learn marketing. You can actually like actually do this thing where you just make this thing called a website and then you can learn some skill and you can start charging people for the skill. You can just make it like you can just learn something and create a business. There are all these kids nowadays that are like entrepreneurs like back in my day being an entrepreneur involved like brick and mortar and building something and having trucks and workers. All these kids nowadays they're just like making tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of dollars without any professional training. Like there's one guy that I worked with like believe it or not who would sell figurines on eBay after painting them and made like five grand a month just fucking selling figurines. He buys them, paints them and sells them. Like that's crazy. So start doing something and try to do the most challenging thing that you can. Right now I'm trying to transition. So next question. Right now I'm trying to transition out of gaming so I'm just kind of curious about this. Okay. Yeah, so like I'm seeing I'm just looking at I just did a search for like Warhammer and there's like there's three Adeptus Custodes Vertus Praetors which are selling for $80. I don't even know what that is but the three figurines that are selling for $100. Like I'm not saying it's like a lucrative market it may have like you know evened out in terms of supply and demand but like you can make money in all kinds of ways. Okay going on to question four. Okay so right now I'm trying to transition out of gaming into learning marketing so I can actually make money on my own. Perfect. So this person is like this is great whoever's queuing these questions up because this person is one step after the last person. I've kind of struggled with this problem my whole life but I basically really get really into something for a few months to a year and then I stop caring and losing and lose motivation. I don't really like the idea of relying on motivation because motivation doesn't have to be the only factor in taking action but I don't know why I always have this pattern of getting good at something but before I master it or get super good at it I lose interest. I'm not sure if it is a fear of failure or what but I would seriously love your thoughts on this because it's been a problem for me for a while. I've had this happen in games too where I get a really high level close to low tier pro and then lose interest. This is a fantastic question. I'm just going to have to think for a second about the answer. Okay. So there are two layers of answers to this question. One is why it happens. So if we start to ask the question of why does this happen and then we can understand the root of it and we can sort of dissolve it as root. The second is like how to deal with it on a practical level. So in today's interview we talked some about like weight loss and stuff like that. We ended with like practical stuff because I think you have to practically do something. So the first problem that this person has I think is a problem of what I call orbit. So the problem is that his motivation he's relying on he or she is relying on motivation to be the primary thing that keeps them on track and they've noticed it's good they're reflecting and they've noticed that their motivation is naturally fueled for a while and then gets like fizzles out. So this is very important. So I think that the orbit that you surround yourself with is very important for sustaining motivation. The simplest way to create and sustain motivation is by orbit. So like what are you orbiting around? What are you spinning around? Who's in your orbit and whose orbit are you in? What is your community? So in meditation there's a saying that one of the crucial things that you need to succeed in meditation is something called sangha. S-A-N-G-H-A. And sangha means community and they say that like success or spiritual growth requires community. Which is kind of weird because like spirituality like meditating is like a solo practice right? It's a single player game. So why on earth do you need a community if you're like playing a single player game? And the simple truth is that like if you're meditating all by yourself over time you're going to fizzle out. But if you go to lectures, if you go to talks, if you go to sits, then that anchors you to continue moving forward on your path because people around you are doing it. My favorite example of this is something called NaNoWriMo which is National Novel Writing Month. So in the month of November there's this thing called NaNoWriMo which is National Novel Writing Month. Where a bunch of people who want to write novels and never have gotten around to it decide that they're going to get together and write a novel in 30 days. So what these people do is they set up like things all over the world where like you go to your city and people in your city who also want to write novels get together at random places at random times. And they like build up a schedule. Someone says like you guys can come over to my house I'll be here from 5 p.m. to midnight. Anyone who wants to come can come and write. We're going to meet at this library. We're going to meet at this coffee shop. And then like a bunch of people who have wanted to write novels the entire year actually manage to write a lot during NaNoWriMo. Why is that? It's because their orbit changes. In terms of my spiritual growth like I didn't start by like meditating at home. Like I didn't do that. I went to an ashram where I was surrounded by people who were there to meditate. And for 90 days every day there were like structured meditations. So it's not habit. It's not motivation. It's fucking structure. Structure structure structure. And when you think about like so when this person says I've been I've been learning marketing my question would be who are you hanging out with? Because eight months into this when your motivation fizzles if you're surrounded by people who are still interested in it they're going to pull you back in. So if you think about even addictions. So what is the most successful alcohol treatment to date is Alcoholics Anonymous. More people have quit alcohol through Alcoholics Anonymous than anything else. Way more than doctors, therapists, medication. Actually maybe the most successful thing is quitting it on your own but there's not good data about that. In terms of interventions AA is the best thing. And so AA's whole thing is about Sangha community. So my first point to this person is that you have to understand that motivation is going to wane and what you need to cultivate is a community. Who are you hanging out with? I think that's the problem. I would guess that this person is not hanging out with people who continue to push them and inspire them to be better. And so you're thinking about like why is it so easy to like continue to play Dota? It's because all the fucking people on my friends list play Dota. And so when I log on like they're playing Dota and then I feel like playing Dota. If no one on my friends list played Dota like if I didn't have anyone to play Dota with I wouldn't play Dota like nearly as much. Right? Think about that for a second. And I don't know if gaming developers like did this on purpose but they recognized at some point that giving you a feature to create a community online will keep you playing the game. And I don't think it's like about addiction. I think it's just about like that's how human beings work. When we have a community that drives us to do something we're going to do more of it. So I think the first thing if your motivation wanes over time is to think about how much of your motivation is like solo driven. Are you being inspired and pushed by the people around you? And if not then that's your problem. So the simplest thing you can do rather than getting to the root of your problem and all this kind of shit that I do on stream. The quick and dirty is like create a community that supports you. Join a community that supports you. That's what actually I mean our whole bit like model our business model or model in Healthy Gamer. Business is weird because we're not really making money but is to like create a community for gamers. Right? It's like that's why we have a Discord. Like I think that this helps like watching me stream randomly once is fine but when you and you're with other people like think about what we're doing and why this stream is helpful. It's because there's a community. It's because you're not going alone. This is not you reading a book on your own and just like listening to all my thoughts. It's you guys come here and oh shit this person's question resonates with other people who are watching that's community and now you guys are interested in this because this person asked this question. There's a benefit of like people working together towards a common goal. And so build a community for yourself. Think about the community that you want to join. That's the first thing. Orbit Sangha. So there's like a scientific version of this which is Orbit and then there's a spiritual version of this which is Sangha. So this too there have been studies in terms of like communities and stuff if you guys want to know about science. So researcher Andy Cumming prepare yourselves. There was a study that showed like that was looking at factors for teenage marijuana use. And what do you guys think the most important factor is for teenage marijuana use? Right? It's your friends. If your friends smoke pot you're way more likely to smoke pot. It's not even social pressure. It's not peer pressure. It's not pressure. It's just fucking monkey see monkey do. Like when I log on to Steam and my friends are playing Dota I don't feel pressure. It's not like oh man if I don't like play Dota those guys are gonna make fun of me. It's not pressure. Sometimes there's peer pressure. Sometimes there's bullying. But most of it it's just like they're playing Dota like I'll play some Dota too. Like oh you're smoking a joint? Give me a hit. That's what it is. So create a community for yourself and you'll be amazed at what you're capable of. So I got lucky because like I joined this community where I had peers and colleagues who were very motivated to do shit. And so like it helped me because then I started doing shit. They were all like researchers and like studying like the origins of schizophrenia and like starting businesses and stuff like that. These are the people that I would be on call with. And it's like well fuck like I like to play video games. Like I'm a gamer and all these people are like MD, PhDs at an institution in the Northeast which I shall not name. And then like I was like well shit maybe I should do something. And I was like I don't want to so I tried doing things their way. I was like let me try doing research too and I was like this fucking sucks. And I was like I like to play video games maybe I can do research on that. Maybe I could do something for gamers. I was like oh this is pretty cool. But if I hadn't been at that institution I probably would have entered my mind to do research or and or start a company that's devoted to helping a particular problem. So create your community. Okay. So let me think about this. So I've struggled with this problem. I basically get really into something for a few months to hear and then stop caring and lose motivation. I'm not sure if it's failure or failure or what. I would seriously love your thoughts. Yeah so I don't think it's fear of failure. I mean it could be. But I would guess that you just get bored. Did they actually use the word bored? Yeah so I think what what motivates you is like learning a new problem. It's like something that's new and exciting. And so I think the problem is that you give up when the end is in sight. It's sort of like and that's not because and that's just because you figured stuff out at that point. I would be really curious about whether this person gives up motivation towards the end because like they figured it out. Like the fun part is the figuring it out. So it's kind of weird but this is I was planning on becoming an oncologist and part of the reason I didn't become an oncologist and this isn't to diss anyone but I just found that like figuring out medicine was fun. Like figuring out how the heart works was fun. Figuring out how cancer works was fun. Figuring out like how the kidneys work was fun. But once I figured it out I started to get bored of it. I was kind of like well like now it's just the same thing. Okay like if their heart works this way then I do this. If it works this way I do this. There are all these protocols because we use evidence-based medicines. There are all these big trials and it's really like figuring out okay like which is the best treatment based on all this available data. And what I liked about psychiatry is like I have no fucking idea what to do. There is no like protocol. It's like when sky shows up like I don't know what to say. Like I've talked to him once before like I don't know what like he's a different person now like I don't know what to do. That's fun for me. I get bored easily too. So I like I'm like I don't know I don't know if I'm going to do a healthy game for 20 years like I may just stop in a year. Like same thing happens to me. I like get interested with stuff and I move on. And that's fine. So I think that the second thing that I'd suggest is that it's not that you're like lazy it's that you get bored easily. Right? I'm not going to leave you. Don't worry. I'm not going to leave you. But you know I'd say that this person kind of gets bored easily. And so like if that's your problem then I would say like try to do a couple of different things at the same time. This is going to sound kind of weird. But if you get bored of marketing like start a marketing thing and then shift 80 percent of your focus to something else but maintain 20 percent of focus in marketing. Because the way that you're going to grow is when you get bored. Let's say you want to learn piano and you like marketing. So like oh like I'm kind of done with marketing. Let me go to piano. And then if you maintain the marketing a little bit when you get bored of piano you can come back to marketing. It'll be just as fun as it originally was. So you can kind of juggle a couple of different things. So one one of my teachers once told me that like your problem is that you get bored easily and so you should try to do multiple things. And when you get bored of one thing then you can move to the next thing. And when you get bored of that thing you come back to number one. So now I do like two or three things. And that's just how my day is. Like I can't see. I saw patients for a few hours this morning. And then I stream like part of healthy gamers because I couldn't just work with people in my office all day. It's fucking boring. It's not that I don't like him. It's just I get bored. And so I try to create a life in which I'm like stimulated. So like I do I do streaming and then like I'm going to like maybe make some videos or something like that. And then I work with some patients. I like talk to researchers and I'm thinking about like doing some research. I try to do like a few different things. And so like I'd say don't just do one thing but like keep it on the back burner and do something else. And then once you have like three things that you're kind of committed to then you rotate between the three and you'll be amazed at how much you can accomplish.