 But I would say the majority of people are actually like you and this is the part that we never talk about it's like how is it actually affecting your life like is it even if it's not a Huge problem should you use should you not use is it good is it bad? Like the truth is that 80% of people are just like you and probably somewhere in the middle Hello my friend hello, how are you today? Uh, I'm good. I had I had my final exams today for my for my classes Awesome, and got any plans for later today None at all. Okay. Awesome. And what do you go by? I go by Rogan mainly that is my name. Okay. Nice to meet you Rogan. So talk to me about Marijuana, dude, so I actually haven't been doing it for that long So I came I moved up to Canada for schooling from from from the southern half of the states and Then when I turned 19, it's like, you know, okay cool. I can get all the stuff legally now So it's like, you know, why not try it? So, you know, I tried it and then I did it the next day and then I and then a few days later did it again And then it just became more often and then and now it's like like like I I'm doing it every day But I'm managing to keep it within like times where I know I'm not doing anything and don't have any responsibilities going on When when I start to get a little overwhelmed, it's like, okay, let me let me let me have a little bit See if I can unwind Okay, if you're ready to take the next step on your mental health journey, check out dr K's guide it's an immersive resource that distills over 20 years of my experience Laid out in a way that is tailored to your needs So if you're ready to better understand your mind and take control of it check out the link in the description below How far along are you in in college? So it's only a one-year long program It's more like a trade school type thing. Okay, and I just finished my final exams this morning and graduations next Friday. Wow, dude Congratulations. Thank you. Sounds like you first used marijuana. I'm assuming that you started in the fall Yeah About like like November December. Okay, so so and that's when you first started using marijuana when you tried it Yes. Yes. And can you tell us a little bit about what was in your head when you tried it for the first time? So when I first tried it I was with one of my housemates out back and it's like, you know, I took at that time Using his bong and it's like first hit it's like, you know 30 minutes go by nothing happens Second nothing happens third and then you know 15 minutes after it all hits you But it's like that first time it's like, you know, it was fun it was it was really fun it was um Because because you know, it was something I had never experienced before. Mm-hmm. So it was like like it was just like whoa This is cool It's kind of kind of satisfying that curiosity Okay, and and what was when you say it hits you? What does that feel like? Well when it hit me it's like everything zoomed it's like I like I used to want what I felt I felt like everything just kind of zoomed out just a little bit. Hmm Okay, and then and and like my face muscles just kind of got tighter That's what I felt personally, okay I've had a lot of people have different reactions and and what what was fun about it? I guess the most fun thing was, you know, just kind of Like the the sort of relaxing feeling it brought and it's like, you know, just you just kind of sit down and let it take over And what is it when it takes over? well, I Often just end up sitting sitting down like listening to music And I'll like notice more in the music like like say I didn't notice before or it just feels different to listen to it Mm-hmm. Yeah, so I think it's very common for people to find that Sensory experiences are far richer when they're high. Would you say that that's the case with you? Yes in both good and bad ways how so? So so like the good ways of course was like like music movies any sort of stuff like that and but What I found recently is it kind of like amplifies whatever feeling I had before You know, it's kind of like oh I'm having a shitty day Let me let me see if this helps and then like it'll help like 15 minutes and after that It's like, you know that I feel worse Okay, so it sounds like it does help temporarily but then like you're saying it kind of amplify So if you're in a bad space, it makes you Go into a worse space for me It does I know people who will go into it in like the worst mind state, but you know feel amazing the entire time Okay, I Like I don't know if that's something with like two different strains or just like body compositions or what but Yeah, it seems to some people it kind of takes away the negativity but for you it seems to enhance it now it does Yes, they used to not And what did it used to do? I I should just not you know, think about anything while I was high It's like, you know, I would I would get high brain would shut off, you know, just like, you know Just just just do things but you're not thinking about Anything except for what is happening right then presently Okay, so it sort of really helps you be kind of absorbed in the present moment okay, so you find that things from the past kind of come into your mind and Disrupt your ability to be in the present. Yes. Okay, and so so it seems like marijuana used to kind of make that go away Yes And what was like the first let's say week or month of use like for you? I wouldn't I wouldn't do it on like school nights. I'm like just in case anything happens. I don't want to Miss anything but then as it as we've gotten to like the further terms, it's like it's like it's like it's a Tuesday It's like four o'clock. I'll be fine by the time I go to bed So what I'm sort of noticing is that okay So originally it was like Fridays and Saturdays, right? Because like there's like there's the work week and then we're gonna like party on the weekends, right? Yeah, there's a there's a time for fun and there's a time for for work And also we you kind of are aware that marijuana potentially This is a hotly debated topic interferes with your capacity to do work Right. Mm-hmm. And and so I'm noticing that you kind of thought well, I shouldn't use During the week. Did you used to think that way? Yes, and then your mind started to say like well, I think I can kind of get away with it I guess it was like it was it was like I'm bored and I can't figure out what to do So I'm gonna get high and then see see if I find something to do and so you mentioned earlier that sometimes you would feel Overwhelmed or you would start to get overwhelmed and then you would start to use marijuana. Can you tell us about that? Like what is that? What is that experience like? an example So for some for one of my final projects I had to like design and put on a show and the first time I went through it The video did not record and the live stream of it did not go live So I like afterwards else that was you know, trying to figure out how like rescheduling it, you know I was super stressed. I'm like, okay, this is my project. I could I could flunk out because of this and You know, it's just that sort of overthinking and getting Getting too into what could go wrong Okay, and then and then it's like, okay, I need to I need to slow down I need to I need to just I need to put everything at a manageable pace So I go now go have have just smoke a little bit and then come back inside sit down Breathe let it take effect and then resume whatever I was doing So what I'm hearing is that it may not have actually improved your performance But it made it easier for you to do like internally. Yes, right? So it's like you're not stressing as much you're kind of chill about it, but you may be like slightly disorganized You're kind of like you're able to focus on one thing But so it's helping you kind of internally do the work, but it's not actually helping the work itself. Yes Okay, and and so what it sounded like you started using it every every day at some point So when I started using it every day, it's like I would I would wake up go to class Then come back and I'm like, okay cool. I don't have anything to do for the next three four hours That's let's smoke. I'll come down by the time I have to do anything and that became every day and It just started to kind of almost lose that magic it had They know it's like but at some point you're like, well, why not? Yeah, so so it's it's it sort of becomes an activity that you sort of use to fill gaps in your day. Yes Yeah, so tell tell me about you know, what's what's your marijuana use like now? How do you feel about it? How does it make you feel? Um, I would say it's like Before hand it's like okay, you know, I'm I'm bored. I'm gonna I'm gonna like watch a movie watch the videos It's like, you know what? Why not get high while I do it just to see if it enhances it a little bit But usually it's like it's like I'll be distracted watching something else and then you know something I don't want to think about just you know Pops pops out of nowhere and it's like, okay cool now now now it's ruined And this is what happens when you get high Yeah Can you tell us about that? Yeah, like I think a day or two ago I was I was just watching a movie and then and then it's and then like the memory pops into my head of hey Remember remember that that that girl that left you purely because you weren't like physically close enough. Yeah You didn't get a fair chance, you know, you know, it's like it's like a sort of echo chamber type stuff where it's like, okay Something I thought thought years ago comes back. This happens more when you get high now Yes And you still get high every day Yeah, why I? Guess I guess it's really To to can I have that sort of I Don't know how to like say it Um it is It's almost like it's a it's like okay. Here's a here's something that that can be a constant Here's something that you know can be can be always in the background or or something. It's it's it It's some sort of consistency Almost like a safety net. Yes Hmm and what is it's like consistently give you Like when it first starts happening and then you know it but like it so like if I'm if I'm high And I'm getting high and I'm like playing a stupid game with some friends, you know for that like first bit of me being high It's like it's like, okay, cool. I'm I'm having fun I'm doing I'm just you know, hanging out my friends then you know as as as things do, you know You know eventually you stop playing the game and then I sit down and it's just Me alone with my thoughts and then and then once I realize that's just me It it just kind of starts to derail So it sounds like it's a ticket to fun, but like at some point you get off the train Yes, you know and then you're just left with your own thoughts And how long does that linger like how long does it take you to sober up? Depending on on the on the strength that I get it's it's anywhere from like maybe an hour and a half sometimes to Three or or or if I just keep going it can be all day got it So so it sounds like your mind will kind of like turn up These old things, but I'm not getting a sense that you get resolution But maybe sometimes you get progress when you're this way or no Sometimes yes So I'm hearing that it doesn't cause problems in your life Like it hasn't impaired my function for anything Okay, it's like it's like I still work perfectly fine. I still go to school perfectly fine How do you feel about using it? I don't know if I really know how I feel about it And that's another thing. It's like it's like, okay keep you know, keep doing it. It's it's it's it's It's almost like okay. I I had fun these times. Let's let's see if it's fun this time You know recently what is the longest amount of time you have gone without using? four or five days and When was the last time you went four or five days without using? Last last week two weeks ago and how do you feel when you're doing that? I Mean, it's it's not like a hard thing to do It's just it's it's like it's like man If it's like it's like it's like it's like I'm so bored if I If I got high I could figure out what to do You know or or if it's or it's like if I got high, maybe what I'm doing would be just a little bit more entertaining Okay I'm gonna try to stitch some things together and I'm gonna ask you like a couple questions and try to like lay stuff out So I'm gonna go grab my iPad if that's cool So let's start by understanding clinical perspectives. So when we think about clinical addiction What we think about is impairment of function So you can look at all substances or all addictions and basically like In psychiatry what we do is if it is messing with your life It is negatively impacting you in some significant way That's what we sort of think about as an addiction Now I'm hearing that it's not impairing your function, but I also haven't assessed you clinically for it So when we do clinical assessments on addiction, we'll sort of talk about you know, like we'll ask people like hey You know, is it causing problems in school? Is it causing problems with your relationships? Is it causing problems with your parents? Is it altering your mood? Is it altering your physical health? There's all kinds of things do you experience withdrawal? There's all kinds of features that we will assess That's not really what this conversation is about And I really actually appreciate that and the first thing that I want to say Rogan is thank you very much for having this conversation Because if I when I think about people who use marijuana Let's say this is the portion that maybe is clinically addicted This is the portion that is totally okay With their usage But I would say the majority of people are actually like you and this is the portion that is totally okay And this is the part that we never talk about It's like how is it actually affecting your life? Like is it even if it's not a huge problem? Should you use should you not use is it good is it bad? like the truth is that 80 percent of people are just like you and probably somewhere in the middle and these are the people that you know, we really need to talk to because I think there's a lot going on in the Trajectory of your life that is being affected by marijuana But since these people are not clinically addicted and maybe you you are who knows Like all of the attention that we give people is that is the people over here Right and sometimes we get into beef with people over here and we argue with them But this is actually like this is the majority of where the people use marijuana live and this is the majority of where like the Impact in your life is and it's like not addiction then the answer is simple, but here's a huge question mark So I'd like to talk to you about this does that work? Yeah, okay So I'm gonna start off with a bias Which is that I think that this is a problem so I'm stating that you know straight up Like I said, I don't know I have no idea if you're addicted or not but I see problems in the trajectory of your life and I'm laying that out front and center so that I Could be wrong so you can disagree with that judgment and but everything that I'm saying is gonna be colored through that lens Does that make sense? Yes, so let's understand something about marijuana So I think the basic the basic issue that I see is that I believe it is stunting your growth Now this is important to understand because It doesn't mean that it is Creating it's not lighting something on fire It seems to me like marijuana is leading to you stalling some in the trajectory of your life This is this is the thing that I am the most concerned about for you. Does that make sense? Yes, so I'm not saying it it is true. I'm not saying that it is stunting your growth It's that when I listen to your story, I see yellow flags about its stalling Like you feel like you're stalling to me I feel like I'm not ready to move off to move right like I look like I'm not ready to Make these big life choices, but it's like, you know, I'm going through with it. I'm doing it. Yep It's like it's like it's like it's almost mentally stunting, but you know, I'm still I'm still doing it Yep, that's exactly what I completely agree a hundred percent, right? So what I think it's actually interfering with is your progression towards readiness Not the actual action or not inaction So like I'm with you that you're not ready, but that's where I think the problem is and that's where I think it's contributing So I think we're sort of on the same page But so so let's start off when someone starts using marijuana. The first thing is that it's fun So what marijuana does is it allows us to extract? more pleasure From a given activity When you get high do you get the munchies Rogan? I used to I've but I I started eating a lot and I've just I've generally like it's like, okay, I want to eat right now, but I'm not going to sure But how does food taste when you're high? Oh, you know, it always tastes amazing. All right Oh, it's always it's always so fun And and so that that's what it does like so in life we have all these experiences like eating things and listening to music and Other usually like physical sensations will feel like looking at things like, you know, looking at a tree branch like you mentioned so this is how it starts out being fun and Then what starts to happen is that after a while? This is a very consistent pattern Then what the cool thing is that if anything can be more fun on marijuana what that means is that boring activities? Can turn into fun activities like you are You said you were staring at a tree branch for a while, right and like that's super cool So even simple things like eating food and existing and having conversations There there are like low dopaminergic activities Like conversations nature these like low dopaminergic activities and we as a society are Starting to struggle because as our brains get more and more dopamine our tolerance for low dopaminergic activities goes down and So marijuana almost fixes this problem because for some people will say like yeah video games are more fun when I play When I get high, but if you look at how much So a video game will move from a 7 to a 9 in terms of enjoyment But sitting outside will move from a 2 to a 9 and so what happens in our dopaminergic society is that this becomes harder and harder to do and Now marijuana makes it easier to do things that are not dopaminergic and So now we have this choice of like we're kind of dopaminergic Lee dependent But like now marijuana lets us do other stuff like be with nature eat things Then Something tricky happens because once we once boring activities become fun with marijuana Then what starts happening is marijuana starts being used to alleviate boredom Right because like anything becomes like what am I gonna do today? Well, I don't have a hundred dollars to go out and drink I don't have anything else to do so I might as well get high And so what what kind of happens is that like you're kind of fast-forwarding through a day when you're high does that make sense? There's also like impairments and time perception and stuff like that So instead of being bored a whole weekend where you've got nothing to do You can get high and then before you know it the weekends kind of over and like you didn't get bored You kind of had fun. You really enjoyed things moment to moment and you were in the present moment which marijuana also helps with But now we've transitioned from it being straight fun To alleviating boredom and making boredom tolerable But as we start to use marijuana to make boredom tolerable we become inherently Incapable of tolerating boredom and Then what we end up doing is we develop some amount of tolerance Which is it sounds like what you've started to develop and now what we end up doing is using marijuana to keep boredom at bay and Even then it even if we sort of listen to you It sounds like you're not having a whole lot of fun anymore And so like you used to have like a nine, you know It used to make things like a nine But now like marijuana is barely keeping things at a four to five and without it We're like kind of dropping down to a two and now you're kind of swimming around here How does that sound? Yep? Right. And so now it's like well We originally did this to turn a seven into an are really a two into a nine. We used to get a plus seven for marijuana and over here we start to get like maybe a plus four and now it's like at this point when we when this happens now we have a a chronic debuff of like a minus five and Then now we use marijuana to get a plus four, but we're at minus five chronic debuff and then plus four and so our net is negative one and This is kind of where I see you Then there are a couple of other angles here So this is why I think that like if you have an extended period of sobriety where you reduce your physiologic tolerance What'll happen is what we really want to do is cleanse this debuff and this is what sobriety gets you I'm not saying that it's like like, you know, the rest of this stuff is You can still enjoy it like that's fine But what I notice with a lot of people who use marijuana somewhat chronically is they enter into this like chronic debuff state And then you kind of have to use it just to keep stuff at bay That's one angle. So the second angle that I think is pretty concerning is if you look at human development You're like in a very like important phase of your life, right? So you're talking about This is true of all kids who are kind of your age, right? You're moving away from home and this is hard. So you're feeling lonely Isolated without a safety net these are negative emotions Without marijuana, what do you think happens to these feelings? They're still there and what do they do? Do you know how do they affect you? They they just kind of sit there in the back of my head It's like it's like they're not prominent, but they don't really go away at all. Okay, right They're just kind of like almost like like a nuisance in the back of my head There are nuisance in the back your head This is what is stunting your growth is that they are in the back of your head not in the front of your head Something that's very important to understand our negative emotions Are our most powerful motivators? and This is why negative emotions exist Negative emotions aren't a bug They're a feature and they're conserved amongst the entire human race and even outside of the human species Like dogs have negative emotions like mammals have negative emotions. And why is that? So when we have a negative emotion, it is a signal To other parts of your brain. So if you look at your hippocampus Which is where we learn from our mistakes and we start to create new behaviors All in the hippocampus the hippocampus is very very tightly connected to our negative emotional circuitry So if you look at why do people with addictions and I'm not saying you have an addiction we're talking generally here Yeah, why don't people with addictions learn from their mistakes? We see this a lot with video game addiction as well it's because in order to learn from your mistake that negative emotional circuitry has to activate and Influence your learning circuitry. It has to turn on your learning circuitry and Then you will learn your lesson So normally what happens with a 19 year old who goes to college right this is developmentally appropriate Everybody feels lonely and isolated in my case I played a ton of video games and so push that loneliness and isolation to the back of my mind it came roaring back every every night when I went to sleep and Then I would suppress it with video games and then I would play so many video games to where when I hit the pillow I would pass out I would stay up to like 6 a.m In the morning, I would play games until I was so exhausted that I knew I would pass out the second My head hit the pillow. So I never gave a chance for these negative emotions to come forward Now when you push these to the back, you don't actually do anything about them Right. So you kind of continue existing when these emotions are front and center You go down the route of being a PC you start to make changes in your life They become in you be they hurt you so much that it prompts you to change It prompts you to do something different when we push them towards the back. We move down the route of becoming an NPC and We start to like it starts to negatively impact our motivation and Why does it negatively impact our motivation? We may think that negative emotions. It's tricky It's not just like one way where negative emotions can kill our motivation They can also be fuel for my our motivation. And so like this is the thing that you're missing This is what I'm worried about I actually don't know if you're missing this but this is what concerns me Hearing your story and this is the primary problem for like all of these people that I've worked with anyway and what I tend to see is that they push their negative emotions away and Then like they start to stall in terms of motivation because they're not like learning or growing from that negative emotion They're not taking that loneliness and isolation and they're not using that energy to really reach out So if we think about what is the feeling of loneliness like any time our body needs something It punishes us until we go get it But the problem is that this is going Into the background Which is exactly what marijuana does right? It makes negative emotions go to the background We're running into a couple of other problems the first is that these negative emotions can go into the background But They're also piling up and At some point the suppressive power of marijuana is no longer sufficient And I think that's what we're kind of seeing potentially with you Which is that even when you get high like as long as your mind is occupied, that's fine But this chronic like loneliness that has been building up slowly and I love the way that you said it there's no shared experience It's like this vapid shallow NPC Recycled dialogue bullshit at a party, right? Yeah, and and so as this starts to pile up it starts to break through and Now the problem is like so marijuana can you know, let's say this is your negative emotional state And if we look at marijuana what marijuana does let's say here's your negative emotions What marijuana does is gives you a minus five, which is a good thing, right? So it lowers it and so it effectively becomes let's say a one But the problem is unless you actually emotionally process This is going to continue building and at some point the minus five isn't sufficient. So even with a minus five We're still sitting at six The last thing that I want to share with you is I've noticed this as well Where if we kind of think about this piece, right if we go back here, we extract more pleasure from life When we use marijuana, so life is like a lemon and so normally like we can squeeze like some amount of juice out of the lemon and Then if we use marijuana we like double it But at some point like we've squeezed all of the juice out and then additional marijuana like the the lemon has run dry and So marijuana can give us more pleasure from food and it can give us more pleasure from music but like It can't ever put you into that 12-hour concert where you were standing with your dad Right if we really think about the transformative experiences marijuana can't give you that and the problem is we get stuck like squeezing this same Old orange and so there's another orange over here, which is the orange of life experience Which sure marijuana can can if we're getting let's say three drops out of this Even if we get high when we do this, we can maybe get a couple more drops or maybe even four But like what what it does is it takes where we are and it allows us to extract more out of it instead of actually moving us forward To these bigger lemons in life that we can get like they just have way more juice because you squeezed all this shit dry, dude And that's what I get the sense of is like when you use marijuana, there's nothing left to squeeze But now that you squeeze this orange dry Or lemon so now it's like it's dry, right? So it's all shriveled and shit. And so now when you try to squeeze it normally all you get is one drop And so if you get high, maybe you can get a second drop out of it But we're still sitting at two drops Whereas if you like move forward in your life and let's say you engage in a healthy romantic relationship Or you find a fulfilling job or you join a band or something like that Then we're gonna get a whole bigger thing that's gonna like make you enjoy yourself so much more. I Think this is the lens that I would encourage people to really think about is like what is it doing to the way that How is it shaping your trajectory? And What I tend to see a lot of is intolerance to boredom Some kind of some kind of like psychological dependence and it's not that we're not going to be able to do that Psychological dependence and it's not that one weekend like, you know, you can use it for a weekend not that big of a deal But it's like when every weekend you're just kind of getting high and like aren't doing anything like over two of the course of two Months you haven't moved forward at all. And so what I really noticed is that it it stalls people over time when you were talking about like like like the Cupid abhorred him and then they could be a like progress It's almost like like I'm too busy fighting a losing battle to just run away Yes, fucking hey, you should definitely write lyrics, bro Absolutely. That's it's so well set. Yeah fucking brilliant It's been it's been like really nice to actually be able to talk about this stuff though And I'm hoping that you know, it kind of helps other people who maybe you know Like because like like the main reason I had never you know Reached out to anybody for any mental health reasons like like I didn't even like I don't reach out to my parents for it I only reach out to my parents for it. It's like it's like, you know, I I don't know what the reaction is gonna be I don't I don't know what what what other people are gonna think when I ask for help It's like am I gonna be seen am I gonna be seen as weak, you know, and is that gonna be used against me? you know, there's there are other angles to this too, which we haven't really gotten into but I've been doing a lot of reading on male mental health recently and I think there's also like there's a reason why the majority of people who struggle with marijuana are men and And I think that a big part of it is like a lot of stuff that you said which is that You know, so you're you're growing up and you're like not allowed to express negative emotion. You're not allowed to process negative emotion You know people manipulate you and you don't even know how to advocate for yourself and so then what happens is like as emotion as you lose control of emotion and The world punishes you for it and so then you develop a fear of emotion emotion becomes a negative thing to be avoided at all costs and Then you find yourself in a situation that is Inducing a negative emotion like you move out of the country and You're isolated and you're alone and you have no safety net But your whole life you've been taught to fear emotion and that emotion has gotten like out of control No one's gonna teach you right because they're gonna tell you to man up and be quiet and and you got to learn how to Handle it. You got to learn right? The the onus is on you. We're not gonna teach you by the way You got to learn you got to figure it out Yeah, right And so we have a very negative relationship and then what happens is something comes along Mike like marijuana And if you look at the studies we notice that men especially are more prone to substance use than women are And I think it has to do with our relationship with our emotions and how we're actually actively punished For even engaging in them or expressing them or even reaching out for help And then who are you gonna reach out with you're gonna reach out to a bro, right? And then that guy has Google gone through the same shit you've gone through. They don't know what to do with that So then they're gonna make a dick joke and then y'all laugh about it and then you never talk about it again And then along comes marijuana Which makes you feel normal Now you get to live life the way that everybody else look appears to be living life and Then but the problem is that those emotions keep piling up and then like you don't ever actually like make progress, right? because you're fighting this losing battle, which is like So you're not fighting the battle that you should be the one that you can actually win and the one that has the prize worth winning so I see a lot of like This is a story. I hear a lot from men and It's not that women can't go through this story as well basically for all addictions they take away some of element of pain but I do think there's a Epidemiologically men are more more people are addicted who are men than women and I think there's a reason for that It may be biological could be testosterone and scrotum. But I think it has something to do with this I just want to say thank you very much Rogan for coming on. Thank you. Yeah for what it's worth I think you're you you strike me as like an incredibly strong person I don't know if you you yourself that way, but I Mean in in some ways, I believe I am then other ways It's like, you know, I still feel like I'm that little kid just yeah so I think that little kid is within you somewhere for sure and And being strong doesn't mean getting rid of the little kid. It means actually giving that kid a space to exist within you and not You know not trying to kick it out and but I mean there's just so much like, you know, you've overcome a lot I think you've really found something that you truly love which is like something that a lot of people struggle with You know, I it doesn't sound like you're an addict and the problem is that when we talk about substance use We're so focused on the addicts that we don't realize there's a gigantic population of people who are like I don't know how to feel about this It's like yeah. Yeah, it's like it's like it's like people are focusing on on on those who've already Gone over that slope rather than preventing people from going over that slope. Yeah And and hopefully we can alter your course a little bit, but who knows maybe it doesn't even need altering So good luck to you man, and thank you for coming on. Thank you for the opportunity. Take care, buddy Thank you