 Welcome, everyone. My name is Alok Kanogia. I'm a psychiatrist who practices in Boston, Massachusetts. Thank you all for coming to the first of its kind Healthy Gamer Lecture Series. For those of you who are joining us from the internet, welcome as well. A couple of things just kind of in terms of housekeeping. In 2018, we're going to try to do a couple more workshops or seminars in the Boston area. Depending on how much interest or traction we get, we may try to do something in New York City. For those of you who are kind of interested in working longitudinally or continuing after this, we do have a couple of online options. There is a mailing list. We have a couple of Discord group chats where people can kind of work through stuff together. Those have been going really well. And then we're going to continue to make other kinds of content. So there may be, down below in the comments section, you guys should see, like, you guys can follow me on Twitter. And there will be a couple of different email addresses that you guys can sign up for if you're interested in workshops, if you're interested in more online content, if you're interested in any of the online groups, you can get connected to everything down there. So if you guys have any questions about any of that, ask me or one of the other staffers after we're done. So just to let you guys know a little bit about why I call this kind of the Healthy Gaming Lecture Series. A few years ago when I was training, I got kind of curious about video game addiction. And the more people that I talked to, the more I realized that, like, the psychiatric community doesn't actually know much about video game addiction. And I realized that the reason for that is because most people who are kind of at the forefront, the leaders of thought within the field of psychiatry and psychology, are like experts, right? So they're like people in their 50s and 60s. If you look at people who are like chiefs of psychiatry, so for example, I trained at this place called Massachusetts General Hospital and another place called McLean Hospital. And the chief of psychiatry at MGH is this guy named Jerry Rosenbaum. He's an awesome guy, but he's like older. And I don't know if he's ever really played video games. So all of the people who are kind of leading the field of psychiatry, if you look at people like the president of the American Psychiatric Association, all of those people are like older, and they haven't really had experience playing video games. And so they don't actually know what it's like to play video games, and they really struggle to help people who struggle with video game addiction. So what I started to do is I got kind of curious about it, and I realized that actually none of my mentors or leaders in the field could actually tell me much about it because they didn't know much about it. So what I started to do is just started working with gamers. So I just talked to people on my, it started out with like kind of my Steam friends list, and then over time as I started talking to more and more people, I started getting emails and people that I talked to were like, hey, maybe you should talk to this guy. And word of mouth kind of spread, and I ended up working with over the last three years maybe 50 or 60 gamers and spent hundreds of hours working with these people. And then even recently started to get requests to work with some professional video game players in terms of like stress management and things like that. And so I just started working with people and trying to figure out like why is it that you guys play video games and what can we do to help you with your addiction? One of the first things that I realized when I was working with these people is that I don't think addiction is really a great term. And I think this is part of the problem with the field of psychiatry is we try to take things that we know like drug addiction and alcohol addiction, and we try to apply it to new phenomenon like video game addiction. And so we call, we sort of all lump those things together. But in my mind, there's a huge difference between someone who's an alcoholic and someone who's addicted to video games. I mean, I myself almost failed out of college due to playing way too much, way too many video games when I was like in a freshman and sophomore. And so I was kind of there and I still feel like I haven't changed. It's not like my addiction got cured. It's just my gaming used to be what I like to call problematic, and now it's become healthier. So it used to really interfere with the goals that I had for myself and interfere with my life. I remember sleeping through my Spanish final freshman year because I was playing Diablo 2 until like 4 in the morning. And I remember like my alarm going off at 730 that I have a final in an hour. And I just like turned off my alarm and went back to sleep and then like failed Spanish because I just fucking slept through the final. That is a problem, right? That's when your gaming is a problem. And now, you know, I still play games. I still enjoy playing games. I'd love to play more games, but I'm too busy doing this shit with you guys instead of actually playing games. But that's okay. I'm okay with that because I feel like this is something that I find meaningful and fulfilling. And so games have become kind of more of a recreation for me. And that's what I'd like to help you guys do. So it's not about whether you're a video game addict or not. And we will talk a little bit about, you know, how do you decide if your gaming is a problem? How do you decide if you're an addict? What I'd really like to do today is help you guys learn how to be a healthy gamer. And this is another thing. So in the addiction world, you know, there's this idea that it's abstinence only. If you're an alcoholic, it's like, you know, 10 years sober and you're never allowed to have a single drink. My understanding is that video game addiction is different because there are a lot of people I've worked with who used to have really problematic gaming who still enjoy playing games but are doing fine in life now. One of the people that I work with is he's actually a really successful entrepreneur, makes like seven figures a year, and still plays like video games for like 30 hours a week. And I think he's okay with that. And I think that's fine too. If you're doing everything that you want to do and you want to play video games for 30 hours a week, that's fine. Go for it. So today, what I'd like to do is kind of just start by reframing a little bit. So the first thing is that, you know, it's not about whether you're an addict or not. Where we need to start is to help you guys understand why you play video games in the first place and what function video games serve for you. And then we also need to think about how do video games shape you? How do they change your brain? How do they affect your neurochemistry? How do they affect your ability to form relationships and your ability to solve problems? Because they definitely do. When a human brain does something for four hours a day, pretty much every day of the week, that whatever activity they do is going to change their brain. If you think about someone who plays music for four hours a day, that's going to change the way their brain works. It's going to change the way that their auditory cortex develops. And in that same way, gaming shapes you guys. So the goals of these lectures are not necessarily to overcome your addiction, but to gain understanding about yourself and understanding about how the gaming that you do shapes the person that you are. And so today we're going to cover a couple of different topics. So we're going to talk about some just general things about sort of introduction to gaming and how you know whether it's a problem or how you know whether it's an addiction. We're going to talk about some things involving cognition. So how does gaming change the way that you think and change the way that you approach problems? We're going to talk a little bit about neuroscience because one of the things that I found is that gamers are actually really good at dealing with complicated information. And one of the reasons that I love working with you guys is I can actually talk about technical neuroscience and it bizarrely does not go over your heads. You guys are actually able to assimilate and use that information in a way that very few of my patients are. So we're going to talk about neuroscience, we're going to talk about cognition, we're going to talk about some general principles. We're also going to talk about relationships. So we'll talk a little bit about how you form relationships in games, how that works, how gaming interferes with relationships. And we're also going to talk a little bit about emotions. I'm going to sneeze. And so my hope is that by helping you guys understand a little bit about who you are and how you work, how your emotions work, how your cognition works, how you form relationships, what's happening in your brain, my hope is to equip you or empower you with this information so that you can get understanding around your gaming and by gaining understanding eventually get control over this person that you are. And by getting control over yourself, my hope is that you can move in the direction that you want to and stop being a problematic gamer and start being a healthy gamer.