 Don't eat me! I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit, a little bit of a little bit, of a little bit a little bit, a little. I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of little bit of a small bit of a small bit of a small bit of a small bud of my light dark bar I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a You'll feel it You'll feel it You'll feel it You'll feel it as the kiosk kiosk will Let's get started. So my hair is a little bit messed up today. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Oluk Kenoja. Just a reminder, uh oh, do we have lag? Okay, we'll deal with it. Just a reminder that although I'm a psychiatrist, nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational and entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a medical concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. It's very true, especially about what we're going to talk about today, because we are going to talk about suicide and specifically in men, and I'm going to try to clarify a couple of things that I said. I wish I could say they were taken out of context, but honestly I think there was some amount of fair context there. And then we're also going to do something, so we're going to talk about that, because I did this thing where I showed up on the internet. I was recently on a podcast called Diary of a CEO. This podcast has gotten a lot of views. People started posting clips about it, and then my favorite thing happened on the internet. People started reacting to it. And so I'm new to this kind of thing, but now what I'm going to do, because I understand this is how things happen, is I'm going to react to some of the reactions. And what I'd love to do is clarify a little bit about what I was saying, but then also continue to talk about this, because I think this is really important to understand. I think some people on the internet seem to... I don't want to say that they misinterpreted what I was going to say, because I think technically that's not what happened. I think they made some assumptions about things that I was saying, which I don't think are correct. And so I'd like to talk a little bit about that. Then what I'd really like to do is I'm going to show you all a bucket of research about why I believe what I believe, what this means for you, and then hopefully at the end I will share with you all what I think we should do in some way about male suicide. I haven't really fleshed that part out yet, but I feel like ranting a little bit, so we'll see where it goes. So a couple of other things just to keep in mind. So sometimes when I talk about things... So today I'm going to be talking a little bit about some of my clinical experiences. A couple of other things to keep in mind. Sometimes when I talk about clinical experiences, they will include things that are clinically relevant, which is kind of like my way of saying, I guess this is like a trigger warning, because I'm going to be sharing some of my clinical experiences working with people who are suicidal, working with people who have been traumatized or abused, things like that. As always, and if you guys don't know this, whenever I talk about these things, everything that I talk about is chimerical, which means that if I say I saw a patient who was X, Y, Z, I change all that stuff out to protect privacy, but the essence of the story is true, and it's usually multiple people that this applies to. So there's a couple of quick disclaimers. So a couple of other simple things. So one is that if you are someone who's struggling with suicide, I strongly, strongly, strongly urge you to seek mental health help from a professional. If you're actually in danger today, please go seek emergency services. Call 911 in the United States, depending on what country you're in. It's like 112 or all kinds of other things. And hopefully, if you don't feel like doing that quite yet, I will make an argument by the end of wherever we end up today as to why that is a good idea and the right move. OK, so let's start. With the reactions. OK, so Dr. K did something silly. OK, I did something silly, and that silly thing was I opened my mouth. And then the rest of the general Internet. Was paying attention for once, and let's see what happened. Oh, OK, looks like you guys do not have a audio input here. Let me see if I can add one real quick. Can Dr. K add a tech to support check? Audio output capture. Desktop audio. Let's call it this. And then default device. OK, can you all let's see if this works. Suicide. OK, there we go. All right, so for some reason, this video seems pretty quiet to me. So you all may have to turn up the volume a little bit. It's jacked up all the way over here. OK, but let's just listen to it. All right. So the number one thing that correlates with male suicide is not depression. This is super scary. There's one study I saw recently that suggests that 50 percent of men who kill themselves have no history or evidence of mental illness. And this, I believe, the statistic in my clinical practice, because I know what depression looks like, I know what bipolar disorder looks like, and half the men that I work with at least are not actually mentally ill. See, mental illness means a pathology of the mind, which means that the mind is malfunctioning. Most of the suicidal men that I work with, they're not their mind isn't malfunctioning. They genuinely have a life that is no longer worth living. They're looking at things and objectively realizing that there's no way out of the situation. So they turn to suicide. So I know it's kind of like a very controversial statement, but I think that's what my clinical practice has shown. And there's some research to even back that up. OK, so I think there's there's a lot of things here. OK, so this is what I said. We'll show you the papers in a little bit. And I think some people are getting caught up in this word objective, which is just a quick kind of disclaimer. So like, you know, so this is challenging when you're speaking about stuff on the Internet, is that like everything. So if I'm giving a talk about male suicide, there's enough space in the talk to add the nuance, add the complexity, add the disclaimers. And then sometimes when you do something like go on a podcast, you are by necessity forced to simplify things because like you're making another point. Like, so in this video, I'm not talking about male suicide is the primary point. I'm using it as a statistic to talk about in context with a larger conversation. So just to give you all a quick heads up, like the whole interview was like two and a half hours. I think it got edited down to like one hour and eight minutes. And I'm not saying that they did a bad job or anything like that. That's just how things go. Right. Like I may have scratched my balls somewhere in the middle of the interview and they chose to edit that out. Thank you all very much from diary of a CEO. I think they did a great job with editing. I'm not saying that I got taken out of context or anything like that. But now let's look at some some of the reactions. So why live if your life is stupid? Well, why not take a huge risk? What do you have to lose? That's how you should teach depressed men to think. Fuck it, bro. Go all in. You're already dead. It's all upside from here. So I think that this is like one example of one of the responses, right? Is like if someone's life sucks, what do you have to lose? Why do you not take a huge risk? I don't know why this person put depressed in quotes. I'm not I'm confused about what that means. But I think it's like some people kind of feel this way. Right. So this is like kind of good. It's like kind of positive. Right. Like, like, you know, I guess I'm not sure. And and and then hold on, let me see if I can. God, I can't stand myself. Talk. I've had three friends who committed suicide. All of the men two were married. One had a four year old daughter. All had lots of close friends. One was highly paid. Servage lives worth living is bullshit intended to pander to a social media audience. So when when I when I first saw this tweet, you know, I got a little bit upset and I was like, oh, my God. Right. This person doesn't understand what I'm saying. I think that, you know, like. But let's remember, like, this is X or Twitter. Right. And this is the Internet. And what happens, like, you know, this was I wasn't trying to pander to a social media audience. I I thought the way that I what was in my head is I'm trying to raise awareness about a mental health issue that I think is troubling. I mean, if I was pandering to a social media audience, I think I would have said it in an accent, you know? And so my first reaction was that, like, OK, this person is like, you know. But I mean, I think the person probably comes from a good place. And let's remember, like, why would this person interpret what I'm doing is pandering to a social media audience? I don't know, maybe because they spend some time on this place called the Internet, where a lot of content creators like this is what we do. Right. So I think that this is like a helpful comment. If a little bit misdirected, which even then, I can't really blame them for. Right. Because what are they reacting to? They're reacting to a 50 second clip of a one hour and eight minute video that was edited from a two hour and 30 minute interview. So this is what we have to remember about the Internet and Twitter and X and all of these platforms. These are not places for nuanced discussion. These are places for reactionary content. OK, so in regards to male suicidal patients of therapists who believes their minds are not malfunctioning and their lives are not worth living would not be beneficial as a therapist does not attempt to correct or improve their situation. Now, this is where I say this person, I disagree 100 percent. So there are a couple of very, very, very important things to consider here. So let's start with this. OK, I want you all to really think about or actually we'll get to this in a second. So then. As been gold, decided to react to this. So the number one thing. So people are mad about this. People are pissed off. And it's like, obviously, he's not saying that they should kill themselves. He's talking about it from their perspective, right? It's like I haven't seen the context, but like, tell me, am I wrong? That's clearly why it's like from their perspective, they think that their life isn't going to get any better. So like they logically come to this conclusion rather than come to this conclusion through a manifestation of some sort of actual pathology of the mind, like he says. But people don't understand that. And they're getting pissed off at him. Right. This is crazy. Why live your life is stupid. Well, why not take a huge risk? What do you have to lose? Well, that's that's again what you have to teach people. Right. And that's clearly what the point is. Life's not worth living is bullshit intended to pander to social media audience. Now, like, bro, I feel like that sometimes, right? Like I'm. So I'm going to pause here for a second. So I want to just. So if we look at something like this and their lives are not worth living, would not be beneficial. OK, so the first problem that I have with this is. Just because someone's doesn't have a malfunction of the mind doesn't mean that we don't try to help them. Right. So like, I don't know how you say, like, just because someone accurately assesses their life is not having a whole lot of value. Why do you assume that that means we don't try to help or correct or improve their situation? That's absolutely what we do. And this is where I want you all to really understand this. This is what I think is so important to understand. So here is a person. OK. Now, let's look at their life. They have a there are some subjective aspects to life. And this is like this is rife with all kinds of problems, subjective, objective. And let's say that there are objective problems with their life. So actually, forget about subjective problems. I'm going to change this a little bit. So let's say they have a malfunctioning mind. So if someone is suffering and says my life sucks. OK. And then you have a malfunction of the mind. So in the case of clinical depression, one of the key things about mood disorders, like a depressive episode, is that while oftentimes depressive episodes are triggered by negative circumstances, the whole point of the pathology is that this person objectively has lots to live for. So I'm thinking about so I worked on a particular psychiatric unit called Blake Eleven at Massachusetts General Hospital. I was an intern there and I would have patients who came in and they were married. They had kids. Who loved them? They had careers. They would go skiing in the wintertime. They even had dogs. So someone comes in and says, I'm suicidal. My family would be better off without me. My kids, like I know they say they love me, but like they don't realize how shit of a dad they've got. This is what I would call a malfunction of the mind. So this is a situation where you look at it objectively and you say like, and even then, like you could say, argue what is objective, what is subjective. And this is where when I say objective, like basically what I'm referring to is we can look at research on quality of life and we can take like a thousand human beings and we can say, OK, what is the quality of life of these people? And then like we can say these people have a good quality of life. These people have a bad quality. If we have like research on quality of life, OK, we can say this person has a malfunction mind. Now, let's take the case of someone else. Let's say that I am 36 years old. I am a virgin. I have no job. I live at home. I've never had a romantic relationship. I have nothing to look forward to in the sense of like, I'm not going on vacation. I'm not striving from promotion. So when I say like no future, I don't mean like in an abstract philosophical sense, I mean like literally, if you sit down and you talk to this person, you ask them, what are you looking forward to over the next year? And they have nothing. They can't think of a single thing that they're looking forward to. OK, now we have to be super careful here. Because if we say the reason that this person is suicidal is because of these things, which are I would call them objective aspects of their life, will get a little bit into the nuance versus the objective aspects of this this person's life or OK, this person's life suck. Where is the root of the problem here? Now, this gets complicated. And like I said, we'll get into this because this leads to cognitive biases and emotional changes and all that kind of stuff. We have to be super careful because if we assume that this person's problem is all in their head and they have a malfunction of their mind and actually they're wrong, we know your life better than you do. You have a lot to live for. You're just too fucking stupid to understand it. You just need to dig deeper and try harder. These people try way harder than most of us will ever try. Honestly, this is my experience and my understanding of it. Fucking to be 36 years old and wake up one day and like pull yourself out of bed because I'm fucking happily married and like I've got a two year old. I'm tired, but my life is good. I have a reason to get out of bed. What is way harder is to get out of bed when you have no reason to get out of bed. So this is where like, you know. And we'll get to some of this, like, why not take a huge? What do you have to lose? What you have to lose is effort. So if you're 36 years old and you haven't done anything with your life, what do you have to lose? You have more effort with no gain to lose. That is a huge cost. You have futility in your life. This is what the experiences of these people are. Right. So this is where I don't say like, oh, hey, you're mentally ill. You just your brain and fucking brain, fucking brain. You don't realize that there's so much to live for. When I say like, I look at these people's lives and I think they objectively look. And this is what I mean by objective. So you call this objective or subjective. I'll give you all a simple example. Right. So this person walks into my office. It's 36 years old. And they have had nothing of consequence in their life that they can remember. Maybe they did somewhere. But generally speaking, they kind of dropped out of college. They just started playing a bunch of fucking video games, watching pornography, you know, like getting developing parasocial relationships with VTubers. And like, this is what their life is. Now, if you ask this person like, what do you have to look forward to? What is your experience of life been like? Just think about this. If you live the majority of your 20s and half of your 30s and you have had nothing to look forward to, why would you logically assume if you've been trying this shit for like 36 years, why would you logically assume that things are going to get magically better in two years or three years or four years or five years? Why would you logically assume that? Right. So human beings are really good at pattern recognition. I'm not saying that their lives are not worth fighting for. And I'm not saying we'll get to that because I'm against suicide. But what I'm saying is like when I say that their lives are objectively shit, like this is, you know, they say that. And this, by the way, was something that was taught to me, which is like, I'll just share this example with you all. So I was working at Massachusetts General Hospital and I was working in the emergency room. There's a brilliant nurse practitioner there. And then she would like see patients and she would come to me and then, you know, we'd like talk about it. I'd say like, OK, what's going on with this person? And then she'd say like, there's six diagnoses in the chart, conduct disorder, polysubstance use. And if you guys know mental health and your mental health profession, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Polysubstance use disorder, conduct disorder, PTSD, bipolar disorder. Maybe major depressive disorder. Forget the fact that those are mutually exclusive in ADHD. Those are the six diagnoses. But she says, I ask, what's the problem with this kid? She says he has SLS. What is SLS? Shit life syndrome. This is a kid that grew up in a traumatic household, was through like the group home and orphanage system, abuse, substance use, no good role models, no prospects, got into trouble at school, got put into this IEP. These kids just, they just never had a chance in life. Well, you can slap as many diagnoses as you want on top of them, which is usually what ends up happening. And then they get medicated to all hell. But the problem is that they've just never like, you know, there's so many communities, social lack of role models, lack of love, lack of support, lack of modeling, lack of emotional mirroring, all this kind of stuff. So first thing we have to be super careful because if we assume that this is a malfunction of the mind, then what we try to do is fix the malfunction of the mind and we ignore all of this stuff. This I think is potentially one of the biggest mistakes that we're making. Okay. So let's take a look at a couple other comments. Okay. Every man has a life worth living. Doom porn deserves scorn and rebuke. So this I think is also where we have to like take a step back and we have to decide a couple of things. Okay. So someone says every man has a life worth living. Now, so one of the things that we try very hard as therapists is to do something called empathize. What does that mean? That means that when someone walks into your office and they say, this is my life, we do our best to meet them where they're at. We do our best to understand as therapists, and maybe this is wrong, but this is, I think is fair that this person has lived their life every day and that this person has lived their life every single day. And I have not lived their life every single day and that the experiences of my life don't necessarily translate over to them. So if someone says every person's life has value, I agree. But the reason that I agree is because of my life, because I see that my life has value every day. I've lived with some value. I've thought that I didn't have value and now I believe that it has value. I agree that all lives have value. But my point is that when someone walks into your office and they say, this is my experience of the world, I think it is the height of arrogance to say you are wrong and I am right because I haven't actually lived a day in their shoes. And I'll tell you, we did this for decades to women because women showed up and said, Hey, I'm getting sexually assaulted. And we said, ha ha ha. No, you're not. That is impossible. If you got sexually assaulted, you are asking for it. This is literally the kinds of responses we had. So what was this 2017 Me Too movement about? It was about believe women. Hey, I have a crazy idea. When someone says something about their life, how about we meet them where they're at? We're not saying they're a hundred percent right. And there may be cases. I'm not going to get into the Me Too movement and sexual assault and all that kind of stuff. They're, they're absolutely like, at least in depression and suicidality, there are cognitive distortions and stuff like that. But a good starting point at which I think is like basics of medicine is like listen to your patients, hear what they have to say, try to understand them. This is the foundation of therapy. Is the better that I understand someone else's experience, the more that I will be able to help them. And the whole problem, I've heard so many horror stories of people going in and telling their therapist like, Hey, my life sucks. And the therapist is like, no, it doesn't. You just need to see things this way. You just need to do things this way. And that can actually be helpful for some people. Okay. There's variability there. There's nuance there, but this is like exactly in a sense what I think the problem is. So here's my take. Okay. So first of all, let's take a look at a couple of these. I think they're subjectively determining their life isn't worth living. And there are only a few decisions away from feeling otherwise. And this person is kind of saying, okay, like what do you mean by objectively realizing? What do you mean? These are great. I would love to know more about what qualifies as not worth living. I'm not sure I get enforcing your client's suicidal tendencies is his best medical or ethical practice. I agree, which is why I don't do it. Right? So let me be very clear. I am a hundred percent against suicide and people may even say like, okay, but what about the situations where someone has a, like debilitating medical degenerative illness, like ALS. And like even in those cases at best, I'm a question mark. So if I had a patient who walked into my office tomorrow and said, Hey, I have ALS. I want to kill myself. I would be like, yeah, I can't help you do that. So I've had those kinds of requests by the way. So I've had patients, like the weirdest referral I've ever gotten is someone was like, Hey, I need a psychiatrist to sign off so that I can go commit medical suicide in Europe. And I was like, I'm not willing to do that. So I'm a hundred percent against suicide. Okay. I've even had people who will be like, like, but Hey, Dr. K, you believe in reincarnation, right? So it doesn't make it okay. Cause I just, I'm not willing to do that. I'm like, no, bro, I'm still against suicide. Sorry, bro. But here's how I approach those situations. So I think somewhere along the way, and this is like, it's Twitter X or whatever. Right? So acknowledging that someone objectively has a shitty life and this, I'll tell you like literally what I say. And here's the way I think I choose to approach it. So far, my patients seem to be pretty happy with it as far as I know. Right. So I think that's the way I approach it. I know. Right. And that is like, okay, so if your life is objective shit and you have no hope, this is what I say. I say, I can explain to me why, first of all, help me understand how your life is meaningless and is complete crap. Like I would love to hear what you're actually talking about. And that's when they say these kinds of things. And this is when I say, I hear you. I still don't think suicide is the right answer. If you're feeling dangerous and you're going to hurt yourself, please let me know. I'm going to do everything I can in my power to stop that. And here is why. Because at this point, hundreds of people I have worked with who have been suicidal, 100 people have walked through the door just like you have. And 97 out of 100 over time have been arguably as hopeless as you have. And their lives have been better, have gotten better. I hear you that your life is objective shit. Let me help you build a life that is worth living. Now, this is very important to understand. This is not me saying, hey, your brain is malfunctioning. You just don't realize that your life is worth living. This is me saying, hey, I'm going to meet you where you're at. If you think your life sucks, let's do something about it. Right. And this is where like I don't I mean, in a sense, I can't blame these people. Right. Because there wasn't context to this clip. This 50 second clip. Right. So I absolutely try to correct or improve their situation. But this also has, you know, like I don't enforce quite the opposite. The other thing that I'll kind of say to them is, hey, like, look, I understand that you have no hope right now. What I would love to do is carry the hope for both of us. I have hope for you. You're telling me that your life is absolute crap right now. I hear that. Not just right now. You told me that it's been absolute crap for the last 10 years. I think it's completely reasonable for you to be hopeless. I can't imagine living 10 years of your life and waking up and finding hope. I can't imagine how logically I would be able to do that. I totally get where you're coming from. But I have hope for you. And if you're OK with it, I will carry the hope for you and me for three months. You don't have to. All I want you to do is show up. Try and get some help. Like, I know you've tried a ton. I know you've worked really, really hard. I can see that you've tried so many different things. I don't think you're at fault. But what I would like to do is help you, because I think the biggest problem in your life is that you haven't received the help that you needed. It's not your fault. You've tried. You've given it a shot. So let me help. And the reason that I choose to hope is because 97 of seven out of 100 people who walk into my office get better. Right. So here's where I'm coming from. And I'm not willing to give up on you yet. And then some of them will say, but what about the three? You said 97. What if I'm in one of the three? And this is where we get to the cognitive bias. Oh, that's so interesting. Why would you assume that you would fall into the three instead of the 97? Huh. How did your mind jump there? That's so interesting. I wonder if there are other situations in your life where you assume that your things are not going to work out for you. Where did you learn that? How did you discover that if, you know, it's fuck. I don't even know what the right analogy is. It's like. You know, if everyone is mining up gold, you dig in the earth and you're the one guy who finds shit. That's an interesting like that's an interesting perspective. Help me understand that. And then we'll eventually get to the question of if you believe that you are in the three percent who you who will fail, what do you think that does for your prospects of success? There's this thing called the nocebo effect, where if you believe you're going to screw up, if you go into a job interview and you think you're going to screw it up, the belief that you are going to screw it up increases your chances of screwing it up. And then we get to self-perpetuating cycles and we can open the door. And that's when the therapy happens. Why do you immediately jump to the three? And even then, when they say the three and this is where I say, yeah, like, it's not that those people are uncurable. Let's understand this, right? Let's be nuanced. Let's be specific. It doesn't mean that they can't be helped. It just means that my dumbass was not sufficient to help them. Because shockingly, I'm just a regular psychiatrist. Right. I'm no miracle worker. I am flawed. I can't help all of my patients, because as a psychiatrist, we don't have all the shit figured out. And on some days, I don't get eight hours of sleep. And maybe my neurons are not wiring. That doesn't mean that they are hopeless. Why do you assume that that means they are hopeless instead of I am flawed? So even for those three patients. Who I care about deeply, I just recognize I was not the person to help them. So 100 percent against suicide, absolutely. And we have to be super careful, because if we assume that the reason that people are suicidal is because they are mentally ill as opposed to they are not mentally ill and they're actually things in their life that are driving them towards suicide. What that means is we will focus on treating something that may not be the problem. So this is something I've learned as a doctor. Misdiagnosis is the biggest mistake you can make. I think I'm fixing thing A and the problem is B. And right now, what we're seeing is a large increase in suicidal tendencies in men, for sure, but also in women. Like proper, true 21st century equality people, we are seeing equalization of mental illness, which is not a good thing. It's a bad thing because everything is going up. So now let's take a look at another reaction. OK. Sounds like a fulfillment issue. Yeah, it sounds like if you're in an area. So, for instance, I believe that people can get to a point to where their life is not worth living. But in order for you to think that your life is not worth living, I think you have to have some kind of mental illness going on. Except for, like I said, in some circumstances, if you've got extreme failing health, such that you're just in pain all the time. Like I said, there are some exceptions that I can understand, for the most part, I don't think. I think it means life's not worth living is a conclusion people arrive at after a lot of thought rather than a malfunctioning brain. I disagree. I don't think that's the case. Something is fucked in your brain then. There's just not... Humans acclimate, a healthy brain acclimates to an unbelievable amount of stuff. Like even... I've said this before on stream, I think I said this yesterday. Even people who are handicapped, you can lose both your legs, you can become quadriplegic, you can have shut-in or locked-in syndrome, and even these people's happiness will acclimate surprisingly quickly. So the idea that you've done some rational analysis of your life, and like, wow, I need to kill myself. Something is... Yeah, something is not... Okay, so I'm sure at some point Destin and I, or I hope, will actually have a conversation about this. Because this fucking reacting back and forth is... So, look, I respect Destin a lot. I think he's not wrong here, and I disagree. So let's understand a couple of things, right? So let's turn to the data. So this is where, like, I'm not... And there's data to the opposite of what I'm saying. So we're going to talk about the flaws in the data. So the first idea is that, okay, like, people can have a life that's crappy, but if you're suicidal, there's one exception, which is like debilitating illness. And Destiny is also correct that there are a lot of studies that show that human beings acclimatize to, like, lower standards. That's true. Like, if you lose a limb, you will... And you ask someone, would you rather lose both your hands or die? People will say, I would rather lose both... I would rather die than lose both of my hands. But then if someone has an accident where they lose both of their hands, heaven forbid, then what you discover is they're like, are you glad you're alive today? They're like, yeah, I discovered that I can still have fun. I think there are a couple of huge disconnections here with some of the things that Destiny is saying. Based on my understanding as a clinician, I don't blame the guy because, you know, he's not a doctor, which doesn't mean that he can't have valid viewpoints. He's actually exceptional at assimilating information without a professional background. I think it's something I respect about him a lot. He's right about some of this stuff. And also, let's look at some more data. I think he's wrong about some of it, too. But... Okay. So this is a study called Suicide in the Absence of Mental Disorder, a review of psychological autopsy studies across countries. Okay. So we conducted a systematic review of... What is PA? Psychological Autopsy Studies from 2000 onwards, okay? Up to 66.7% of suicide cases remain without diagnosis in those that only examined Axis I disorders. So 14 studies looked at Axis I disorders, which means more acute mental illness, not personality disorders. And 66.7% of cases remained without a diagnosis. Approximately 37.1% of suicide cases had no psychiatric condition in research papers that assessed personality and Axis I. So if we start looking at personality disorders like narcissism or sociopathy or things like that, borderline personality disorder, then the number of undiagnosed people drops to 37%. Okay? And then Stephen does a great job of this. He says later on, I don't know exactly where he says it, but he says, like, I believe that there are going to be studies which will show no evidence of mental illness, but I think that is a case of undiagnosed mental illness that is really there and causing them to malfunction. Okay? So it's like, when we look at this study, does this mean that this person was not mentally ill or that they were mentally ill and we just didn't pick it up? Okay? So let's just look at another paper. So I think when I was talking about the actual study I was referencing was this one. So this is from the American Journal of Preventative Medicine. I think this is a group out of UCLA or is like the primary authors here. Okay? So these are like real research articles. Okay? Most male suicide decedents had no known mental health conditions. Most. Okay? And more frequently, those without known mental health conditions died by firearm and many tested positive for alcohol. Adolescents, young adult males, and middle-aged males without known mental health conditions more often had relationship problems, arguments, and or a crisis as a precipitating circumstance than those with known mental health conditions. So this is really important to understand because what this study suggests is that it's not just that we're missing stuff. It is that we can look at these cases and what we can find is that prior to suicide these people had relationship problems, arguments, and or some kind of crisis in their life. Okay? Now I'm going to show you all a paper that counters this, sort of. Okay? So let me see if... Okay. So this is a paper on the epidemiology of suicide from a psychiatric perspective. I think this really looks at a lot of World Health Organization data. Yeah. The majority of suicides worldwide are related to psychiatric diseases. Okay? So here is another paper that was published in 2018 which concludes that across the globe like most of these things seem to be related to psychiatric illness. So we have some papers saying, okay, this is very little, like two-thirds are not psychiatrically ill. We have some papers that say the majority are not psychiatrically ill and they had relationship problems. And then we have some papers saying that, okay, like mental illness is a huge risk factor for suicide and maybe associated with suicide, all that stuff is fair. Right? So how do we interpret this stuff? So this is where we've got to be super careful. So I want you all to really understand the way that we interpret these, and I think Destiny did a great job of kind of analyzing this. Right? So when we look at a scientific paper and we say, okay, the evidence suggests we do not see any history of mental illness in somewhere between 37 and 66% of people who commit suicide, men who commit suicide. Now, we have to be super careful because what a lot of people will default to is say, okay, this is undiagnosed mental illness, but that's not actually what the data shows. Right? So this is where we can say, like, okay, I believe that fairies are responsible for curing cancer, and then I look at a study that shows there's no evidence of fairies in 66% of cases, and then I say, well, I think that fairies are interested or are an important part of curing cancer, and in those 66% of studies, we just didn't detect the fairies. So we have to be super careful there because what we're actually doing is we are taking a piece of data and we are interpreting it based on our belief system as opposed to looking what the actual data says. The actual data says there's no evidence of mental illness in somewhere between 37 and 66% of people. Now, to counter that point, just like Destiny points out, we know that the rates of mental illness are undiagnosed, or they're high rates of undiagnosed mental illness. We don't really know what those are, but whatever our estimates of mental illness are, they're certainly worse. So there is a very good argument to make that these people are mentally ill. On balance, I do not think that the rates of mental illness, like undiagnosed mental illness, are super, super high. I tried to find statistics on it. The numbers are somewhere between 40 and 100%, which means that if we're diagnosing 20% of people with depression, what that means is that the real number is somewhere between 30 and 40%. It's not like we're not missing nine out of 10 people. We're missing maybe one out of two, and that's sort of a generous estimate. So even if we assume that we're missing one out of two and we double the rates of detection, we're still talking about a large chunk of the population, somewhere between 20 and 40% of the population that doesn't have a mental illness that's committing suicide. And the other reason that I believe that is because of studies like this where I kind of showed you all that if we look at this, like if we look at suicide, we can see that there are other precipitating factors that aren't mental illness, which is why people kill themselves. There's data around this, right? So it's not just... So I think it's a... Here's kind of where I am with this. It is a valid... It is a shocking statistic that in the most alarming studies, 66.7% of people who kill themselves do not have mental illness. That is an alarming statistic. I don't think that the number is actually that high. I think that we're missing a fair amount of mental illness, for sure. No question. Now, how much? I don't know. Now we get to a core problem, which is that this is not just like Dr. K saying this, right? So this is also where I should say that my clinical experience about this has been scary, because I've worked with these people, who I don't think are mentally ill. They just look at their life, and they're like, I can't do this anymore. This is not a sustainable way to live life. And then you may say, then, why not change it? Because they've tried and failed. They're not willing to make the change. They're unable to make the change. They are powerless to make the change. This is why you believe that you're going to check out, right? And that's where I think we need to help them, which is what I do in my job. But we've got to be super careful going back to this basic issue, okay? So when someone comes in and says, my life is shit, what are we saying, right? What's the right move? Do we say to this person, this person comes in, and I have suicidal ideation. Do we assume that 1% of people are malfunction of the mind? Or do we say, okay, like, we're going to not be paternalistic therapists. We are going to listen to you. We are going to acknowledge that you know your life better than we do. And if someone shows up and says, all lives have value, like, I think that's great. Like, I think it's great that you believe that. Now what I want you to do is if you're someone who believes this, I mean, what would it take for you, what would you have to go through to change this belief? What would your experience of life have to be? How bad would your life have to be to change your mind that every man has a life worth living? What kind of shit would you have to go through to throw you off of that? And now what we really need to understand is that this is the experience of people who are suicidal. Instead of assuming that they're weak or broken, let's assume for a moment that their lives are objectively incredibly hard, that their lives are nothing like the lives that we live, because this is what I've seen, and I'm not the only one. So there's another, just these emails that I wrote to my friends a couple years ago. And I remember I showed them to one of my colleagues. And I was like, you know, I was thinking about talking about some of this stuff publicly. And I was like, you know, but I'm not ready to yet because I'm pretty sure I'm going to lose my job at Harvard in academic position. And he was like, oh, no, no, no. If you talk about this, you're not going to just lose your academic position. You're going to lose all of your positions. And so I was like, oh, OK, interesting. So yeah, got to make strategic moves. I know. So I have Atlas also is an awesome content creator. We talk we had a conversation on men's issues like years ago. And like, that's what the climate was back then. And thankfully, I think the climate is better now. Like, so, you know, it's challenging stuff. And I think this is the reason. Right. So the moment that you start saying stuff like this, people will start interpreting all kinds of weird things and not weird things. I think they're reasonable. But it's like, you know, so this is this is where let's understand like the dialogue here because this is important. It's not that if I acknowledge that my client or patient has a life that is not worth living, that doesn't mean I tell them to go kill themselves. In fact, quite the opposite. I'm just going to say this again. It's to say, hey, bro, I understand that you have a life that you think is not worth living. I would like to help you deal with these objective problems. Instead of just assuming that you're you have a bunch of cognitive bias, which is making you misunderstand what's going on. What I would like to help you do is find a romantic relationship, build a career, you know, get a career. So get build a body that you. Are not embarrassed about. Right. These are the actual goals. And in order to accomplish these three things, in my experience as a clinician, that's when we get to this, because this stuff interferes with this in a way that they don't understand. Right. And this is where I might being paternalistic. No, I mean, I think there's actually like a skill set of things that people who are in this situation have never had the benefit of learning. And due to issues like trauma and stuff like that, they have so many like they have so many things going against them that they just have no ability to start because that's not how I mean, human beings don't really pull themselves up by their bootstraps. Almost never. And at the beginning of the top list is like parenting healthy parenting is such a huge advantage in life. And what is healthy parenting? Healthy parenting is help. The most important help that you will ever receive in your life is from your parents. And if you did not get that help, you have such a disadvantage. But that doesn't mean that the problem is in your head. That means that you may actually have a life that is quite crappy. That doesn't mean that you should kill yourself. It just means we need to do a better job of helping you. So let's look at some other papers. OK. This one will skip for now. So. So this is kind of interesting. So a couple years ago, we had someone come up with this concept of diseases of despair. So what we did is we looked at let me see if this is the paper. No, we'll get to this. Let me find this. I want to find the one with the diagram. Do you have the diagram? No, you don't have the diagram. Do you have the diagram? Where's the diagram? Here we go. This paper. So. We started to realize something. We saw some disturbing trends. OK. So, for example, deaths from diseases of despair in Britain comparing suicide, alcohol-related and drug-related mortality for birth cohorts in Scotland, England, Wales and selected cities. So a couple of people noticed something and they noticed something kind of scary. OK. So I'll show you. So this is a trends in the diagnosis of diseases of despair in the United States between 2009 and 2018. You all ready? Ready to get wrecked? We'll talk about what diseases of despair are. Five hundred and fifteen thousand eight hundred thirty participants received a despair diagnosis. Fifty eight percent male, median thirty six years. From 2009 to 2018, the prevalence of alcohol-related substance related and suicide related diagnoses respectively increased by thirty seven percent, ninety four percent and one hundred and seventy percent. Ages fifty five to seventy four had the largest increase in alcohol substance related diagnoses. Hey, let's try to be a little bit kinder to the boomers. Can we do that, please? Can we? I know some of them are not nice to us, but can we please be kind to the boomers? And here's here's already already Internet generation, Gen Alpha Gen Z ages less than 18 had the overall had the largest increase in suicide related diagnoses. Two hundred and eighty seven percent. The odds ratio for men is one point four nine, which means that one and a half times as likely or 50 percent more likely. OK. And then there's some stuff about the Affordable Care Act. So like this is scary. Right. And this is, by the way, is related diagnosis. This is not talking about this is not a study looking at people who kill themselves who don't have a diagnosis. But what does this mean? Diseases of despair. So here's the other like crazy thing, which if you look at this research, like here's what you begin to see. We're going to talk about addiction and suicide for a hot second. So in my experience, there are two routes to addiction. Number one, you have an addiction. Number two, you are slow playing suicidality. So that sounds kind of crazy, but let's understand this. See, when you're suicidal, you've given up on life. Life isn't worth living. So what do you do? Right. In the worst cases that we want to try to prevent, you kill yourself. But you don't have to kill yourself fast. The other thing you can do is get an addiction. And as I've worked with more and more people with addiction, what I've started to realize is this is a slow suicide. My life is empty. I have nothing to look forward to. So what am I going to do today? Let me go ahead and fuck the world and fuck my future and fuck everything around me. I'm going to get high. I'm going to jerk off. I'm going to watch porn. I'm going to play video games because life has nothing to offer. So I'm just going to indulge in this dopaminergic spurt. Addiction diagnoses, I think, in like, I want to say 30 percent ballpark. Honestly, the number is probably higher. These people have given up on life and they're just extracting whatever they can from this biological sack while they're alive. Honestly, that's been my experience. And this is what the diseases of despair tell us. So a group of clinicians realize something really interesting, which is that there's a group of people who seem to be despairing in life. These are people who it's not quite depression. So this is not like a neurochemistry imbalance in the brain that is triggering all this. There are groups of people. So if you look at research in the UK, fishing villages in the UK are notorious for this. The economy sucks. These are oftentimes young men who are given these attitudes of independence and be like what makes a good man a good man provides. And when the economic situation that you live in allows you to no longer provide, you can no longer be a good man. And what do you do? You turn to alcohol and other kinds of things. That's why they look at if you look at the diseases of despair, there's a reason why they look at these particular diagnoses. They're not looking at like generalized anxiety disorder or OCD. There is a different kind of construct, which is when people genuinely have a life that is crappy with very little opportunity, we see a certain psychiatric manifestation. So I'm going to just run through like a sample example of like what this conceptual model of diseases of despair. This is a fantastic article, by the way. So let's look at where this starts. So here's the key thing to understand. Mental health outcomes is at the end. This is the terminal event. This is not the cause. This is the outcome. So we have proximal life stressors like social rejection, loss of status, economic hardship, loss of purpose, life events, low resource environment, lack of stable employment, social network. This is the actual start. Protestant work ethic, I guess, is associated with it. Self-reliance and independence, masculine culture. Oh, fuck me. You're telling me that on the flow chart of mental illness is masculine culture and societal expectations. Fuck me. Historical events, childhood adversity, economic challenges, suicide, contagion and media. And then we get to the person. This is stuff that is completely outside of our control. Thoughts. No one cares about me or will help me. The system slash others have betrayed me. Nothing will ever get better. I should be able to fix this. Other people don't understand me. I'm broken. I'm helpless. I'm weak. I'm a bad person. OK, now this is where we can say, OK, doesn't this mean that this person is mentally ill? Sadly, I don't know. Sadly, I think the reason that a lot of people believe this is because they're conditioned to believe this, because they've been taught this in some way. Now, oftentimes they qualify as a mental illness, but like it's really sad, but this is not a malfunction of the brain. This is programming. Is it mental illness because it impairs their function? Absolutely. But when you have a child who's raised in traumatic circumstances, childhood adversity, abuse of parents, this is the way that they see the world. And they're not wrong. This is what happens when you get traumatized. You develop survival mechanisms which become maladaptive later. We have a whole guide coming out in maybe like a month or two about this. Right. And so then there's emotions. And then we get to some of this stuff toward belongingness, perceived burden, burdensomeness, which is really scary. OK, so I want you all to understand these two. We'll go into more detail in a second. So when we look at theories of suicidality, what we find is that the most common way that we can think of is suicide. What we find is that there are a couple of really damning things that really lead towards suicidality. And mental illness is absolutely a huge risk factor. But what researchers have actually done is they've tunneled down and looked at the people. Forget about the diagnosis for a second. What actually happens in this person's life? And what they discover is there are two things. One is perceived burdensomeness, and the second is thwarted belongingness. Now, what do these mean? This means that, first of all, I'm a burden to those around me. Right. This is perceived burden, burdensomeness. It's not clear how I don't know how you objectively measure burden. But these people go through life or at some point they start to believe that like I'm more of a burden than a help. I don't contribute anything. I'm just a taker. And the other one that's really devastating, which I think we see a lot of now, this one I think is getting worse, is thwarted belongingness. This is where people try to belong. I come to a group of people and I say, hey, can I hang out with you? And everyone says, ew, no. And this is like, this is where you're like, hey, I'm a human being. I'm trying to connect with you all. And people are like, thank you, but no, thank you. And in a sense, this is reasonable. Because no, I mean, I'll hear this a lot, especially in terms of gender dynamics. And everyone's like, I'm not responsible for fixing this other person's problem. It is not my responsibility to be this person's friend. It is not my responsibility to include this person. It is their responsibility to fix themselves, find their own things. I'm not responsible for another human being. This is the value system that we live in today, in the West at least. And that's reasonable. I'm not responsible for some random person on the street. But then we're still left with the problem of if you're not responsible and I'm not responsible and this person isn't responsible and this person isn't responsible, then who is responsible? So what I see is a group of people, and this is happening a lot with men. It's happening with women too. I see it more in minority women and frankly women who don't adhere or don't have the biology to adhere to standard beauty standards, some of the loneliest women. And what happens is these people don't know how to connect. Oftentimes from a young age they're bullied, technology enters the picture. We don't know how to end. We don't have social spaces anymore. We're spending all of our time on Discord. And then once you're 29 years old and you've never been in a relationship and you don't quite know how to dress, when people look at you, what do they see? They see a creep. A creep is the most devastating label you can get. Because what does it mean to be a creep? Does it mean that you did something wrong? No. Does it mean that you're bad in some way? Did you actually do something? Are you a thief? No. Are you harmful? No. You're a creep. What does that mean? It means that I don't want to spend time with you, but I don't have a very clear reason. That's why we use the word creep, right? So if someone is like a rapist, that makes sense. They're a rapist. That's why I don't want to spend time with them. If someone's a thief, we understand. If someone is a League of Legends player, we understand why no one wants to spend time with them. Okay? But creep is like a word that we apply to this. And what a damning diagnosis, because what do you do about that? You don't have social skills. Now you get ostracized. Now how are you supposed to get them? And this is where we have another huge problem. So if we look at... I'll show you another quick paper. I jumped ahead. There's another problem here. This is a paper called, Masculine and the Help-Seeking Among Men with Depression, a Qualitative Study. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, so like the other problem that we have is that as men, we don't know how to ask for help. And that's because we're raised with these masculine norms of independence. Okay? And as we get raised with these norms of independence... Sorry for the long comment. I'll take a dig at a couple other games before we're done, okay? So we as men are not taught how to ask for help. And so there's like data that shows that women are taught how to ask for help. We'll show that a little bit later. Because there's a second point to it. So I think another huge problem that we have is if you're a man today, like you're sort of taught that you're supposed to be independent, right? And this is where a lot of people will say like, oh, but like men... You know, when we talk about these societal norms, there's like a trend to say like, no, like I'm not like that, right? So we say like, okay, men should be allowed to... Like a man expressing your emotions is absolutely okay. Like men should be allowed to express their emotions. Really? Which ones? Men can cry? Oh, interesting. What if I have other emotions? What if I feel angry? Am I allowed to express that as a man? And this is where I think Destiny kind of reacts to this too. It is a really common thing. So we as men are conditioned to express anger and feel anger. It's the only thing, okay? We kind of like... We talked about this on Diary of CEO a little bit and I think Destiny reacted to it. But basically I was kind of pointing out that, you know, if you're getting bullied, what are you supposed to do as a dude? You're supposed to fight back, right? And like what we're supposed to do is get pissed. And you guys can watch any movie that has a male protagonist. I will guarantee you, I guess I can't guarantee, 99% confidence, I don't even watch movies anymore, that at some point the man will get angry in a righteous and positive way. And this will be a turning point in the movie. Right? You can watch a movie like Taken where, spoiler alert, it's about someone whose daughter gets abducted. And what does the man do? The man does what he's supposed to do, which is get pissed. And everyone is like, this is what a man should be. I want a dad like Liam Neeson. You can look at any and anything. And then like now we have this like very, very contrived vulnerability of like, oh yeah, like it's okay for a man to cry, but they're so manly when they cry. Like they have such big muscles when they cry. Right? They don't show like the snot and the vomit and the dejection and the self-hatred and the self-loathing. They don't show the crying for hours and hours and hours. It's like five minutes and then there's a pat on the back and then there's like positive anger. And then we're going to go fix our lives. Let's go be men about it. And then we're going to have big dicks at the end of all that. So what happens, and this is such a common experience that I see in relationships, is that women are conditioned that it's okay to cry. And by the way, women get fucked by not being able to express anger as well. Okay. So it's not like just because men have these challenges does not mean that women don't have challenges. And in fact, when it comes to anger, women especially are punished for it. So we're punished less as men. It's the only tool we're taught. But if you're a woman and you get angry, especially in some place like the workplace, you will be judged so harshly. Okay. But this is what happens. We're only taught to express anger. And then what happens, we've started to demonize anger in men. Right. It's testosterone. They are fundamentally violent. These creatures cannot be trusted. All men are bad. Men cannot be trusted. And what is it that triggers these? It's expressions of anger. So we're allowed to like sort of express our emotions, but they have to be the right emotions. And in this way, now we have entered the lot of women. Because for the last 200 years, this has been true of women. Women are allowed to only express a slice of emotions. And men are only allowed to express a slice of emotions. And so like this is the kind of thing where we have to be independent. We express anger. We get ostracized. There's a sense of thwarted belongingness. And then what we end up with is we get called creeps. And then the worst thing is that we don't know how to ask for help. We're not taught how to ask for help. In fact, we're taught the opposite. And so then what ends up happening is that we don't know where to go. But we certainly know that there is one group of people on the Internet who understands our plight. Right? Because the rest of the Internet says, oh, yeah, you're a man. You're privileged. Everything's Gucci for you. You don't understand how good you have it. Stupid me. I didn't understand how good I had it. Right? And sometimes that's true. Sometimes you do have deeply narcissistic people who have no idea how good they have it. Maybe I'm one of them. Who knows? And so the one refuge that they have is the alpha males, the red pillars and the incels. And everyone's like, oh, my God, this is toxic masculinity. These people have nowhere else to go. They tried to join you and you kicked them out. So what do they do? Anytime you ostracize a group of people, they're going to form their own community. And so if you guys have a problem with toxic masculinity, like, how about you be nicer to dudes so that you don't have to shut them all out? And then they're going to congregate and then it'll get radicalized because that's what happens when you shut people out. And then the other problem is these people don't know how to ask for help. And so instead, the other real challenge here, and I don't blame people for disliking them because the way in which they approach other people is so fucking toxic. Right. They're like, oh, women are blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Like, I deserve this and I'm entitled to this. And like they exhibit behaviors and use dialogue that is so damn polemic, polarizing, antagonizing. And then once they piss us off, we're trying to be nice to them. And then they start opening it's like opening up this can of worms where there's like litany of like red pill, whatever the fuck sexual marketplace value and other kinds of pseudoscience mating bullshit that these people have never read a scientific paper. Right. Maybe they have. I don't know. Like they have all these like ideas. Like alpha and beta, which like the original person was like, this is not correct. The original researcher who coined the terms. And then they say things that make us not want to help them. It's so hard and we're not taught how to ask for help. Right. Like, how do you ask for help? You can say you can point out what your deficiency is. You can point out that you are striving for something and then you can ask for help. Right. So this is stuff that I literally teach my patients. Hey, I noticed that I'm not very good at making friends. I would love to be like a better human being and a member of a community and contribute to like the people around me. Can you please help me strengthen my relationships? That's the thing. Point out a flaw that you have. Pick a goal that you want to strive towards and then ask for help. Hey, I noticed a deficiency. This is where I want to go. Can you help me? One, two, three. Is the best way to ask for help. I don't know that scientifically. I don't looked at like meta analysis on different methods of help seeking. Right. But we're not taught this. So someone struggles like they don't know what to do. They get judged as a creep. They have fewer economic opportunities and we're going to get the other ones. Hold on. I have more papers. I'm not done with the papers. Give me a second. OK. I'm going to pause here. So I'm going to ask you all. OK. What do you all want from me? We've got 45 minutes left. So if you all want, I will talk to you about my take on the pathogenesis and how to approach suicidality in men. It's not that I dislike women. It's that there are gender specific things. I'm actually actively working on two lectures right now. One is ADHD for women. Second is autism in women. So I think there are gender specific manifestations of mental illness which need to be addressed. It just takes me a little bit longer to do the stuff on women because I'm not a woman, which means that I have to do like more research because I don't want to be paternalistic. Right. So I have to just it takes me twice as long to prepare a lecture for women as it does to prepare a lecture for men because I have 41 years of experience being a dude. OK. Do you guys have any questions about what I've talked about so far? Yeah. So I'm working on it Rosalie. Then be a woman. I'm working on that too. OK. All right. So. OK. So. All right. Do you guys want to talk more about male suicidality? Do you all have questions or like what? I mean, I see. Feet pics and only fans. I have no idea how to interpret that, but that's not going to happen today because we're talking about the importance of male suicide. OK. So I'm the prize chat. OK. OK. So we're going to talk about all right. So we're going to talk more about male suicide. OK. I don't know who to ask for help. OK. Great. All right. Not great, but we're going to address that. All right. OK. All right. Let's start by looking at a paper. This is a fantastic paper exploring the psychology of suicidal ideation, a theory driven network analysis. So let's understand why people kill themselves. So. If we look at theoretical models for suicidal behavior, this is something that we're going to be talking about. I'm going to show you all the actual model and then I'll talk you all through it. OK. So thwarted belongingness is I'm trying to connect with other people and I'm alone and perceived burden is I'm a burden and then capability of suicide and then desire for suicide. And then this is kind of the Venn diagram. And if you fit all these things, this is when you're at high risk. So the other thing to kind of think about is if we look at how someone ends up committing suicide, what we see is that it's way more complicated than a mental illness. So we have what's called pre motivational phase, the background factors and triggering events. So this is the way that you are raised, the way that you see the world. And then we have motivation and volition. So let's understand the difference between motivation and volition. Motivation is what I want. Right. It is my drive. Volition is my actions. And so what we tend to see is that over time, what will happen for people who are suicidal and I'm going to sort of refer to men sometimes and just suicidal people sometimes different papers are looking at different things. OK. So what tends to happen is we have a sense of entrapment. So I'll give you all kind of like and I think it's internal entrapment. I'll make sure I have this right. Internal entrapment. I antifat or yes. OK. So what tends to happen is we start off with like kind of this this unfortunate situation, which we'll get into. Then what happens is we feel trapped. And more often we feel trapped by our internal circumstances more so than our external circumstances. And we'll talk a little bit about what it means to be trapped. What it means to be trapped is basically that your internal environment is not something that you can get away from. So every day becomes suffering. Every day becomes hopeless. Every day there is a negative space within you that you cannot act to change. This is a very common experience, a very powerful variable. Is this experience of like I can't change the way that I feel. And then what happens is we have something called volitional factors. So this is what we focus on a lot as clinicians. So we focus on things like access to suicidal means. So we try to remove guns from the household. We try to like make it hard for people to commit suicide because oftentimes suicidal behavior is impulsive. So it's very common. I want to say like 90 percent of people decide to kill themselves within one hour of doing it. I could be wrong on the specific statistics there. I think 50 percent make a decision within five minutes and then like it's 80 to 90 percent or within one hour. So the sort of idea that we have from the media that everyone like puts their affairs in order is probably not correct. There's some awesome research by Matnock, also Malzberger. These are two excellent suicide researchers. Strongly recommend you check out their work. So we kind of see from this theory of suicide is that it's kind of like this stretch of like stuff that kind of gets put together. And as we talk about men, let's like I'm going to focus on men for a little bit because I think it's relevant. Let's understand how this happens. So how does a man become suicidal? So we look at diseases of despair. What we start with, we start to realize is I'm a dude. And as a good man, I'm supposed to do certain things. I'm supposed to be independent. Right? I'm supposed to be self-sufficient. I'm supposed to be capable. I'm supposed to be strong. Right? This is what it means to be a man. I'm supposed to take care of others. There's also another really interesting variable here. I'm supposed to be able to tolerate pain. So this is a really interesting gender specific suicidal manifestation. So people have been asking themselves for a while, why do men kill themselves at four times? Why do for every one woman who kills herself, four men kill themselves? Why? So one of the interesting hypotheses is that as men, we are taught to tolerate pain. And if you ask people what keeps you from killing yourself, oftentimes people will say, I'm afraid of the pain. So if you look at a protective factor against suicide, it's pain. So my my since I'm such a wuss and I'm afraid of pain, I'm not going to kill myself. But literally, there are studies that explore this. Right? I don't know how conclusively they show it that basically as men get better and better at tolerating punishment. Right? Because it's always like, you know, if your family gets attacked by a tiger, it's not women and children to the front. It's men to the front. Right? Like literally, like when it comes to military conscription and stuff like that, it's like we send men into war to die. Like we're expected to do this. We're expected to experience pain and suffering and whatever. I'm not going to get into the biological evolutionary whatever of that and whether that's good or bad or I don't know. It's beyond my area of expertise. But what we do know is that men are taught to take punishment. And since we're good at taking punishment, we're like it's easier for us to kill ourselves because we're not afraid of the pain. It's like the pain of death ain't nothing compared to the pain of life. OK. So now this creates other kinds of problems. So we also have a couple of other things. One is that we are alexithymic. OK. And this means that we are unaware of our internal emotional state. And then the other thing that we've got going for us is a combination of these two things. Since we don't manage our emotions, we don't ask for help, we don't do any of that stuff, then we've got this pile of emotions. And we also tend to use substances and addictions to treat them. This is what men do, right? Remember this? The diseases of despair. Let's take a look. Thirty-seven, ninety-four percent alcohol-related and substance use-related diagnoses. Fifty-five to seventy-four are the largest increase in alcohol and substance-related diagnoses. Holy Jesus. One hundred seventy-two percent increase in substance-related diagnoses between the ages of fifty-five and seventy-four. That's because the boomers, this is ageism, so I'm going to rephrase, but in a more factual way, I was about to say the boomers don't believe in emotions. So practically what that is is that the boomer generation was not taught EQ skills, even at the level that we're taught today. So they struggle more with emotions than we do because it was like, you think they're bad with us about emotional validation? You should see their parents. Their parents were way worse than they are. Like the boomer generation has done an awesome job in many ways. I know it's like, oh my God, this is going to get me canceled. But like they had it rough, too. They had some things that were really good, like unprecedented economic growth. Okay. But they struggle, too. All right. And for the record, I don't think it helps to crap on any group of people. Like it just doesn't help us be more compassionate. Like we're all in this together. The nicer we are to the boomers, hopefully the nicer they'll be to us. We should all be nice to each other. We're all in this together. Like life is not a zero-sum game where in order for me to win, you have to lose. It's like a fucking game of Dota where if you int and run down mid, you ruin things for yourself and you ruin things for your teammate. Like we're in this together. Okay. So what does this create? So this creates like a problem because if you're a dude. And you have a good life. Then things are actually pretty good because you may not need the help as much. You have some advantages of a patriarchal society. I as a medical student got mistaken as a doctor. My female colleagues, when they were doctors, got mistaken for nurses. Like there are some advantages to being a man. But what I tend to find is that these advantages are really, really like capitalized on by men who have good lives. So men who have the opportunity for higher education. Fuck ups like myself. Like if my parents were poor, I would not be here today. The only reason that I'm here today is when I failed out of college, I had someone who was there to pay my rent. I had someone who could send me to India and study yoga and meditation. I had someone to help me financially support myself through medical school. And if they hadn't helped support me through medical school and my wife helped support me through medical school, then I would be so racked up in loans that I would have never been able to start Healthy Gamer. Right? So like I am born a privilege and I'm grateful for that. And I think those of us that are born for privilege should try to do something good in the world in what capacity we have. And I would love it if other people who are privileged didn't wait till they were dead to do their charity. Right? Like we need your help now for those of you all that are very, very capable of helping. And I get that it's like an awesome charitable donation in your will. Leave your money to good organizations. Like I'm grateful for that. But like, you know, if you really want to be nice, can you do it while you're alive? Because in the 30 years that you're still going to be here, like people need help too. Anyway, the challenge is that if you have a bad life, it's very hard for men to recover. And that's because we're supposed to be independent. So no help. OK? We don't know what we're feeling emotionally. And so without emotional awareness and emotional healing, these emotions negatively impact us. So, for example, when I feel ashamed, what is the purpose of shame? The purpose of shame is to enact corrective behavior. So if I feel ashamed for not having money, so I have very little money. Right? So this is the kind of thing where like what I'm supposed to do is like work hard and get a job and pull yourself up by bootstraps soon. Come on, come on, boy. Bootstrap time. Let's go. Come on. But this only works if I live in an environment that has economic opportunity. And this is why we see diseases of despair, like literally like in like Wales and Scotland and places like this, because in these situations, like you can pull yourself up by your bootstraps as much as you want to. There's no up. There's no up. No where to go. Like these are like fishing villages that no longer have fishing. It's like a huge problem in the UK. OK? And so then we don't know, like we don't talk to people. We don't know how to ask for help. And then what we end up doing is self-medicating. Right? And this is where we sort of end up with like slow suicide, which is addiction. And what do I base that on? I'm kind of clustering it into diseases of despair. If you look at the research on diseases of despair, what you discover is that there is a common element that leads to substance use and suicide. That's why we cluster them, because there's a shared root. OK? And then what ends up happening is like we're kind of stuck. So now what happens is that I'm here and then I have, remember this? This is my objective versus my malfunction. I can't find one of the papers I was looking for. Maybe it's this one. This isn't the one I'm looking for. I will find it. So here's what we kind of know. So now what we've got, oh sorry. Now we've got, now we get back to this thing. Right? So now we have a human being whose objective life is not very good. So they have very little in the way of relationships. They have very little in the way of prospects. They have very little in the way of romance. Right? And one person may have like one of these three. Like so people will have some amount of this. And then what happens is this over time creates cognitive distortions. Absolutely. And this leads to mental illness. OK? So if we kind of go at our, go look at our diseases of despair diagram. Right? So then we get to this region. We look at the circumstances. And then we start to see all these problems within us. And then this results in mental illness, substance use disorders, depression, suicidal ideation. OK? Now this is where, you know, when Destiny says like, yeah I think at some point like even if their lives are objectively bad they become mentally ill. And he's not wrong. I personally don't agree with that. But I think it's a completely defensible position. Now the challenge is that when things become mental illness the antidote is therapy or medical treatment, which I'm in favor of. But here's what I honestly feel. So if you're a therapist who's alive today. This is the reason I started Healthy Gamer. So people would come into my office and they'd say like I'm depressed and I'd say why are you depressed? They're like I've got no job. I've got no girlfriend. I play video games all day. And I was like you know what bro that sounds like a pretty depressing life. Right? I would be depressed too. And then the more that I started helping people, the more that I started to realize that we as therapists are here to try to help people with their cognitive biases, the malfunctions of their mind. But so many of their problems are outside of the office. So many of their problems are actually bad things in their life. Not malfunctions up here. And so what it feels like to me as a therapist, I'll just give you all an analogy. So like you know there's like the king or the queen. And the king or the queen has like the queen's guard or the king's guard. So you have these like elite soldiers, small number, 20 of them. And we're here to protect the king. We're the last line of defense. And what it feels like to be a therapist today is to be the king's guard and have no other soldiers ahead of you. There are huge macro level forces of people who are unemployed or underemployed. Inflation. 50% of people under the age of 30 are living at home. We have toxic workplaces. We have all kinds of like problems. We've got social media and video games and pornography. And there's all this tide of crap that we can't hold at bay. These are the macro forces, which there are plenty of research studies about. If you guys want to see them, I can show them to you later. And then what we are as therapists, so we're like the king's guard. We're like the last line of defense. It's like if you're suicidal today, we're going to send you to the emergency room and we're going to do really intensive stuff. But we as a society are not fixing all of the stuff that got you here. And so therapy is incredibly important. We do a noble job. But holy shit, are we outgunned. We are so outgunned. We literally I trained for eight years to become a psychiatrist. Right. That's like King's Guard material right there. Eight years of training. But when I look at the majority of people who walk into my office, more economic opportunity. Having other humans in your life like I can help you with your cognitive distortions. I cannot make up for the deficiency of hugs from the last 10 years of your life. A loneliness epidemic is going on right now. Something is wrong with our society. As we become more and more independent, we have stopped taking responsibility for each other as human beings. I can't fix that as a psychiatrist. I can do a lot. I can help you with your cognitive distortions. I'm going to treat whatever malfunctions you are. And we do an awesome job. We're all fucking burnt out, by the way. But if you really look at some of these things, and I can't find the paper, but there's one really good diagram that really illustrates how there are these macro economic forces that then cascade down into an individual. And then this person enters the office. And we can do a lot, but really what we're seeing is a very tight correlation between the worsening of economic conditions and the worsening of mental illness. Because when a human being doesn't have a life that's worth living, it's easy to become suicidal. And so what should you do about it? So the first thing, get therapy. Seek help. Right. So I say this as someone who made a video that went viral about why therapy sucks for men. I still think you all should get therapy. I'm a therapist. I think it's great. I'm an advocate for it. And it is insufficient. But that's where we're going to start. Okay. So here's why. Couple of things. So if you were a man who is suicidal today, the reason that I think you should not give up is because chances are you have not received the help that you need. And the life that you're living today is basically you're playing an MMORPG, but offline and by yourself. This is content that was designed as a 40 man raid, but you're not connected to the Internet. And of course you're going into fucking Blackwing layer or whatever, Ragnaros. Right. And I'm like level 60 rogue. Let's go to Ragnaros. And then Ragnaros two shots me. And I'm like, what the fuck? And then I'm like, you know what? I'm going to be resilient. So I respawn. I repair my fucking gear. I go and grind. Right. Because I can't clear instances. So I like grind on bores. There's no auction house. So I grind on bores for like 15 hours and I sell them for some measly amount of silver. And then I repair my gear and then I go in to fight Ragnaros again and I wipe. This is what it's like to be depressed. Everything you do is harder. People don't understand that if you're not depressed. The things that we take for granted is people who are mentally well. Try to play wow by yourself and see how far you get. That's what it's like to be depressed. So I'm not disputing that your lives are bad. But what I think consistently helps is help. And this is where it's incredibly challenging because some people will say I've been and I've had these people too. They'll be like, I've seen six therapists, six psychiatrists. Nothing helps. So we're going to talk about that for a second. We're going to talk about help. OK. Where's my fucking paper? Not this one. Here we go. So this is where I think there's a big challenge in therapy right now. So let's take a look at men's social relationships and mental health. OK. Most sex differences studies focus on two broad types of support. Emotional support, which includes emotional sustenance and empathy, for example. Someone being available to listen or offer sympathy during a time of crisis. Now hold on. Don't read anymore. So if you're a dude in the audience today or you know someone who's suicidal, has some suicidal ideation, right, go get help for real. Go to the emergency room, get some help. And I want to offer you. Hello. I'm here to talk to you about your problems. We're going to talk about how you feel that. We're going to talk about your feelings. I'm going to say, oh, my God, that's so hard for you. That must be so hard for you. Oh, my God. I must be so hard for you. That must be so hard for you. That's not what the men who come to my practice want. They love it. That's not what they want. But try to give it to them. They reject it. I squeeze in little bits. What do they want? Hey, I want to do something about my life. I want to fix my problems, right? Because remember, some of these people aren't mentally ill. Their brain isn't malfunctioning and they have objective problems and they want, can y'all guess, they want instrumental support, which includes practical assistance or tangible help from others. For example, help that requires physical effort or financial aid. So this is an I'm not giving them loans and I'm not helping them move. But what I tend to find is if you look at a lot of men's frustration with therapy, what they're really looking for is something called instrumental support. And this is not what the majority of our therapy is. This is not what the majority of therapists are trained on. We're trained in emotional support. But what we find is that like instrumental support is like really, really effective for men. So like when a dude like literally I had a my psychotherapy teacher, right? So I had a didactic 16 weeks of here's what psychotherapy is. And a psychoanalyst comes in and says, and maybe I'm doing them. They taught me a lot of good stuff, right? So don't they're not bad people. They're brilliant. But they're like when a patient walks in and says, can you help me get a girlfriend? What are you supposed to say? And I was like, I don't know, maybe. And he's like, the right thing to say is what makes you want a girlfriend? What's it like to not have a girlfriend? Those are all useful questions. But something that's happened in therapy is we've stopped accepting responsibility for the outcomes of our patients. We'll accept outcomes in terms of mental health measures. So we'll say like, OK, PHQ 9 score, GAD 7 score, we're going to reduce your anxiety. We're going to reduce your depression. That's going to be great. But as a profession, we've basically said like we're not going to help you get a girlfriend, get a boyfriend. We're not going to help you get promoted. We're not going to help you be a millionaire. We can't do that, which I also disagree with. Like I think if there's anyone on the planet that can help you do that, it's actually going to be a therapist. Because we've got an awesome skill set. And what we see is like therapists who work with their clients do get those kinds of outcomes. But we become afraid to try to help people with instrumental support. So try to find a therapist. And I'd say you need to see three. OK, because it's about fit. And then recognize like, hey, I need help like accomplishing some of my goals. And this is what I would say to a therapist. I want to like accomplish certain things in life. And I want to better understand what are the things inside me that prevent me from doing what I want? Can you please help me with this? Right. And throw in a please. It's part of what helps in terms of asking for help. So step number one, don't kill yourself. Step number two, get emergency services if you need them. Step number three, find a therapist. Because this is still the best evidence based approach. When we look at the swaths of humanity, we still know that there is one intervention that works pretty well, which is psychiatric help. So we're going to do that. And there's a lot more that we're going to do. Next thing that you need to do is work on alexithymia. Alexithymia is the inability to tell what your internal emotional state is. And here's why. So if we look at a lot of the behaviors that create the circumstances, the circumstances that make you not want to live your life, a lot of those are due to emotions. So you may not think that they are due to emotions, but this is what happens. We have negative emotions. Negative emotions are supposed to prompt us towards action. So emotions are a source of information and they're a source of motivation. They give us energy and they give us info. Okay. There's a whole segment on this on the trauma guide where we kind of explain this. So if you all are interested in what I'm, if you like what I say, definitely check that out. So the problem, though, is that as men, we're taught to suppress our emotions. And on top of that, we engage in behaviors that further suppress our emotions. So if you think about the most powerful motivators for behavior, they're actually emotions. Any movie you look at, some guy gets bullied and he's like, never again. Like, I'm going to get swore. I'm going to get, like, this shame is going to strike. I'm going to be the best and I'm going to be the right. This is what happens in all of our movies. Right. Mean girls. We see that too. We're like, Lindsay Lohan is like, I'm going to I feel lots of emotion. I'm going to become the winner because of it. So negative emotion is a powerful source of information and a powerful source of motivation. But the problem is that it hurts. And so as we look at our lives and we think there's no way that I can actually fix this, I try to suppress it. The problem is when I suppress it, it doesn't go away. I just suppress it. And we also know that suppressing your emotions is a large source of willpower drain. So if you are suppressing your emotions and you don't feel them, you may not even be doing it consciously. You're actually like cutting your willpower bar in half. Right. I don't know if you'll play Elden Ring, but like an Elden Ring, there's this one particular attack that reduces your max health bar. So even if you heal, you can only go up so much. And this is what suppressing our emotions does for us. And so then what happens is not only do we are we losing access to this powerful motivational fuel, but it is costing us a lot a lot to suppress this stuff. So what we really need to do is get in touch with our emotions and process those fuckers. Let's process them. What does it mean to process them? That means to make it go away forever. Right. So think about that. This is what we try to do. We're like, I don't like my emotions. Yeah, I know you don't like them. That's because they suck. And we want to make them go away from forever. But the way that we're going to do that is by processing and healing, not drinking. Drinking doesn't make them go away forever. It just makes them go away for a little while and then they come back worse. So you look at literally studies on alcohol. What we know is that they make you feel better from a mood perspective temporarily, and they make you feel worse over time. And then we get stuck in these addictive patterns where I'm going to do this thing today because it makes me feel good today. And then I'm screwing over tomorrow me and screwing over the next me and the next. And then you get stuck in this cycle. How do you break the cycle? By confronting your emotions. You got to let that shit out, baby. Let's go. And this is where we need companionship. We need support. Right? So there's one of the papers that I showed today talks about male support. And how it's like really good. Like bros need bros. We don't have a space for each other anymore. And women are struggling from this too. I don't know where women hang out anymore. And so step number one is get help. Step number two is manage your emotions. And then the cool thing is step number three is like instrumental support. See, once you do number one and number two, then you are actually in a place to fix your life. Because the problem is that we try to jump straight to step number three. But when we're jumping straight to step number three, we're like handicapped. We have so many debuffs that attempts that we make to fix our lives like we're shooting like we're driving with a leaky gas tank. And then we make a critical mistake, which is that I tried 100 percent and it didn't work. Which is not you're not wrong there. And by the way, this is when we get back to these kinds of comments. Right? Right. So like this is where why what does it mean when someone is like objectively hopeless? Like what do we mean by that? What I'm talking about here is that these people try and try and try and try and try and they don't get anywhere. So then they and I think it's reasonable. Right. So if we were like an alien species and we saw someone perform an experiment where they tried to improve their lives, six thousand times and it didn't work, what do you think is the objective conclusion? Improving my life is impossible. Right. That's like a reasonable scientific conclusion. Now, their study is flawed. I don't think that's actually correct in some way, but I think it's a reasonable objective interpretation. It can be changed, but that doesn't mean that they're malfunctioning. That just means that the way that they've been playing the game of life is going to result in those kinds of results. And so then comes the instrumental support. And what I've actually found is that, like, as a therapist, doing a lot of instrumental support, especially for my male patients, is very helpful. It's part of the reason we created a coaching program. Right. So I recently heard anyway, I'm not going to go into too much detail, but we recently approached by some like a group of people at anyway who I'm not going to I can't talk about it. So never mind. So the point is, like, we created this coaching program because I noticed that there was a deficiency of instrumental support. Right. And at the time I was I was at McLean Hospital, which is a great hospital, like arguably best psychiatric hospital in the country in the United States, probably one of the top five in the world. And so like the chief of psychiatry there, the CEO, is like, hey, you should really check out this this cool thing we have here called the Institute of Coaching. I was like, this is cool. Right. So they started an institute that's all about coaching, which was started by a therapist who specializes in positive psychology, works with a lot of corporations. And so there's instrumental support. And the whole thing is that if you want to put together your life, this is what it takes. It takes these three things. The first thing is to not die. Bluntly. Right. In the great words of Randy Marsh, I didn't hear no bell. The only time you lose at life is when you ring the bell. This, I believe, 100 percent. I didn't hear no bell. As long as you keep as long as you stick around, there's a chance. And the biggest thing that people miss is help. So start by staying alive. Secondly, getting professional help. Third, focus on your emotions and fourth, get instrumental help. Actually start fixing your life. Take a problem that you have, something that you want to change. And this is where literally all of the content that I've made for the last four years, five years, if you'll ask, how do I do that? That's what I've been saying for five years. This is how. Recognize that anything you try to do in life, there is going to be this internal thing that holds you back. The way that you perceive the world is altered. Right. I'll show you all just a simple example of this. So one of the things that we taught recently in one of our members lectures. Right. So lives not worth living is bullshit intended to pander to a social media audience. Now, if we look at this, this person is assuming that I'm doing this to pander to a social media audience. This doesn't come from me. This comes from their mind. Right. And it's I'm not saying it's an unreasonable conclusion. I'm not criticizing the conclusion. I'm just pointing out that this is a direct quote and this is what their mind adds to the equation. So one of the craziest things that you all need to understand is if you're trying to fix your life, you need to pay extra, extra, extra attention to what your life, I mean, your mind adds to the equation. And I see this all the time. These are the cognitive distortions we're talking about. If you ask someone out and they say, I'm not looking to date right now, you say, I got rejected, which is sort of true. But is it your fault? Or is it possible they just weren't looking to date? And this is what I see time and time again, is that the world that we live in is shaped by our perception, shaped by our interpretation. And then we also try to fix things, not recognizing that, number one, and secondly, not recognizing what's in here. Right. And this is where like you all know what I'm talking about. Like we had an awesome interview when we were starting out with this guy, I think named Crucif. I hope he's doing OK, the voice actor. And so we talked a little bit about how he liked this rubber band mechanic, which is that any time it's kind of like he's tied to a tree with a rubber band. And the further he gets away from the tree, the more progress he makes, the more elasticity there is in the rubber band. And then he snaps back. So if you have some kind of pattern in your life where like you snatch defeat from the jaws of victory or something keeps on screwing you up and no matter how hard you try, something is messing things up, you need to look within yourself because there may be things down there that you're not aware of. You may be self-sabotaging in some way. And that's why we talk about emotional awareness, emotional processing, healing. Therapists are good at that kind of thing. And this is what it takes. It's a combination of, first of all, staying alive, secondly, getting some help, thirdly, working on your emotions, especially as men. Right. So if I made a lecture about women's suicide, it would be different. And why don't I make this lecture about general suicide? I mean, some of this stuff is generally applicable. It's because shockingly, I do not think that our research papers on general suicide may apply 100 percent to women. I think that women deserve their own suicide lecture. The reason that I'm doing one on autism and one on ADHD instead of suicide is because I think that's a bigger problem that women struggle with, at least based on the data that I've seen. And you do these three things and like you will be amazed at how good your life can get. And I say this as someone who's helped in 97 out of 100 people like and they come in and they've been in bad shape, bro. Ways all the above men, women, whatever. And most of them can get better. You just need the right kind of help. Questions. So here's here's a here's a good great, great, great, great, great. I have big goals, but no talent. This is exactly what I'm talking about. So notice. So someone in chat typed, I have big goals, but no talent. What the fuck does that even mean? Right. Like, just notice how reflexive that thought is. Like, it is so no three people aren't dead. Three people, I just don't think I helped in a significant clinical way. And I mean I heard one of them is doing well. I'm not sure. But, you know, so I think this is where like you've got to be super careful because like if you all look at me and just just like look at the people like what does that mean? What does it mean to be talented? I don't know what that means. How do you measure talent? I don't know. So I know we have this concept of talent and the biggest problem with I have big goals, but no talent. So I'll give you all one very concrete tip. Be very careful about conclusions about your life that your mind gives you that are not actionable. Super careful. See, when the mind doesn't want to do something. What it does is gives you an explanation that allows you to give up. So it says you need talent to succeed in this world and you have no talent. The construction of the world that you put together logically concludes to not act. Anytime your mind does that, you need to be super careful because chances are there's something else controlling things behind the scene. I'm not saying that it's wrong because it's never wrong. It's just selective usually. So this is where like I hear this all the time and something that I literally look for. I mean, so those of you all that, you know, will watch my interviews and stuff like like how does this guy do this? It's because I look for these kinds of things. I look for statements that are like, you know, conclusions about the world that make it impossible to act. Like there's no point in trying. Right. If you view the world that way. And if you look at the difference between people who accomplish things and people who don't accomplish things, I'm not saying success. What do I mean by accomplish? Accomplish is to set your mind to a goal and actually achieve it. The biggest difference is some people view the world in ways that allow them to act and some people view the world in ways that do not allow them to act. Literally. Spend some time reading stuff on the Internet. The people asking for help and go line by line and analyze. Is this actionable? Is this actionable? Is this actionable? Is this actionable? And what you will find is the overwhelming number of people who are stuck have nothing that is actionable. That's how they see their life. But does that mean that their life is not actionable? No. That just means that that's the way that they conceptualize it. Okay. Yeah. So the man who says I can and the man who says I can't are usual. Both the man who says I can, both the person who says I can and the person who says I can't are both right. You're right. I completely agree. Right? It's the question is which one does your mind tell you? Because oftentimes as an individual, you don't think both at the same time. You think one or the other. How to change it. Great question. So you guys can watch the thousand plus. I mean, Jesus, I don't even know. Right? So if you watch our stuff, we teach you all of these individual cases of how to understand your perception, how to understand your mind, this particular complex in the mind, that particular complex in the mind. Here's how ADHD works. Here's some interesting thing about ADHD. Here's this thing about ADHD and obesity. We've got all this stuff for you all. So you guys just have to start going through it. Like, I don't know how to tell you. I can't condense everything that I've taught into like three minutes. But, but I'll try. OK, so the first thing to understand is awareness is key. So here's the thing. See a lot. Maybe we'll wrap after this. The reason that life is hard to live is because we're blind. Like, just think about this. When you can see and you understand what the problems are, then life becomes easy. It is when we misunderstand what the problems are that life become hard. So in Sanskrit, they say that avidya, our ignorance, is the root of our suffering. And then you may say, but I understand what my problems are. They're just impossible to solve. And that's where I would say, I don't think you understand them correctly. Right? Because if you look at someone who's there are all kinds of people who will let's say I'm playing League of Legends. And I say, my God, this game is impossible to win. But some diamond player, some pro player will show up and will be like, this game isn't impossible to win. You just don't understand it. Right. So when we go through life like there are so many things about our life that we just don't understand. We're not aware of our internal programming. We're not aware of what why we wake up on one day and why we sleep late the other day, why we procrastinate today and why we work tomorrow. Just think for a second. Why do you procrastinate today and why do you work tomorrow or work today and procrastinate tomorrow? Do you even understand something so simple as why you procrastinate? Well, holy shit, if you don't understand such a fundamental thing about you, imagine how hard your life is. Imagine how easy your life would be if you could understand why you procrastinate. Because once you understand what the drivers to procrastination are, then you can actually do something to disable it. So the biggest problem right now is that we don't understand ourselves. So it's like we're playing the game of life where but we're blind and the buttons keep changing. So we're trying to figure out how do I get this character to move? And it's like you hit this button and today it moves. But then it's like one of these I don't know these games where like you know you get like drunk or whatever and then all the controller inputs change. Like that's what life is like. We're playing one of these games where all the controller inputs keep changing. And you have to figure out which buttons do what and you can't get yourself to do something. Imagine that you could get yourself to do whatever you wanted. What would your life look like? And now we come full circle because I've spent a lot of time talking about objective things and all this kind of stuff. But at the end of the day, I think the biggest gain that you can get is just to understand how to control yourself. What could you accomplish if you could just control yourself? And so that's what you should work on. How do you understand how to control yourself? You start by being aware of yourself. Right. You can't figure out what buttons do what until you look at the controller and you see which buttons are even there. Awareness awareness awareness. And the problem in our society today is that we are so unaware. Literally we spend so much time listening to stuff and then I'm walking and I'm listening to a podcast in the shower and then I'm listening to a podcast when I'm driving and then when I get home or I'm sitting when I'm waiting for my friends to show up I'm playing a game on my cell phone. We don't spend any time with ourselves. We externalize our attention constantly. And so we lose sight of ourselves and then life becomes hard. So spend a little bit more time with yourself. Gain as much awareness of yourself as you can. And don't if you give up hope. I mean, I think it's OK. Like ideally don't do it. But just because you don't have hope doesn't mean that things can't get better. This just means that you're unable to feel hope in this moment. And in my overwhelming experience as a mental health professional, people's lives get better. Overwhelming experience. And this is for people who have even been 60 and said in my life I've been depressed my whole life. I've seen them get better. The main thing that you may need is a little bit of help. And that's just what life is like. It's an MMO. Happy Persian New Year, everybody. Cool. Happy Persian New Year, everybody. Cool. Oh, what guru, Dr. K. Oh, my God. See, the problem, so gurus are great. Big fan. The problem is that we don't know which ones are good. So a real guru I think is worth a ton if you can find one. But they're hard to find. And the problem is that we don't have the ability to judge. So. Andy Buck is saying this is like free therapy. So this is the other thing that I'll say. I mean, this isn't therapy. If you guys like this, you should just go see an actual therapist. You'll love it. So this is where if we look at the mental health interventions, right? So what are we trying to do here at Healthy Gamer? I kind of gave you all this analogy that being a psychiatrist or therapist is like being a member of the Kingsguard or Queensguard. Like where the last line of defense, right? So if we kind of look at. Suicidality. All this stuff happens in someone's life. And this is the last line of defense over here. This is where the therapist steps in. So we're the last line of defense, but all this needs to be changed. And the other problem that I have with assuming that therapy is all of the answers all the time is that I don't think it fixes all of those things. As a society, I think we need to understand that the reason that an unprecedented amount of men are killing themselves. And by the way, we say unprecedented. It's not that much worse than it used to be because the other really crazy thing is male suicide rates have been super high for like last almost 100 years, 50 years at least. This has been going on for a while. It's getting worse. And it's a problem. Don't get me wrong. But it's also been going on for a while. I think the problem is that if we say that therapy is always the answer and I think therapy is the first step for the majority of people hands down. But I think we've got to be super careful because the moment that we say that this is a mental illness, we also absolve society of responsibility. Like, I think if you lack self-esteem and you're suicidal, you should absolutely get mental health help. But I think we should also help you build a life that is worth living that you can be proud of. But that requires economic opportunity that requires some ability to connect or requires some ability to connect with other human beings. And this is where we get into the problem of like no individual person is responsible for solving another human being's loneliness. But then who is? Because you can't bootstrap. You can't hug yourself. And it doesn't feel right. Like it doesn't do what it's supposed to do. And we've gotten so far to the point of like we're creating dolls and pillows as a substitute for human consciousness. And it's like you can you can decry the people who are making it. But like how the fuck did we get here? The only reason that there's a market for that shit is because human contact is not findable for some people. Like think about that for a second. And the only way this is going to work is if we start taking responsibility for each other. Right. Not my problem. Like, yes, you're correct. But whose is it? The only way this works is if you make it your problem. And we can keep on becoming more and more independent and creating more and more facsimiles of human contact. And we're going to get better and better at it. But like this problem is fixed if we all accept more responsibility for like taking care of each other. And we can't do that. I don't know if you'll see that. Right. Like why is all this stuff happening? Because humans are giving up responsibility for each other. You're saying I got. What is it? IVFU. So there's a very popular tech company. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. And they're doing it. So, it's a popular tech company. Where they have a phrase, I'm vested. Fuck you. So, after a certain number of years they get their stock options and then they basically can all retire. And so there's this phrase that would get tossed around. I'm vested. Fuck you. And this is the society we live in today. It's like once I get mine, everybody else can go fuck themselves. And this is the attitude. Because we live in this dog-eat-dog world. We live in this independent world. helped me so I'm not going to help anybody. And like I can't blame an individual for that. I really can't. I don't. But my question is what happens? What happens? Like let's play this tape through to the end. And that's what we're here for, right? Like it's about AOE healing. What's awesome about this community is like I can't do it alone. And last thing to consider for those of you all that are struggling with suicidality is a lot of people think that when you're suicidal you have no value because you look at some of these objective metrics. So there's one really big value, I mean there's a lot of value in your life. I think I really believe that. But there's one thing that I want to make an argument for which is that we need you. So if you look at the data, what you find is that peer support is very helpful. And honestly like this is such a weird thing. I was thinking about this and I was like why don't we have peer support for suicidality? We have peer support for alcoholism. We have peer support for all these things. What about peer support for suicide? That's when they hit me. Oh yeah they all killed themselves. So now we have a unique problem when it comes to suicidality, which is that we don't have survivors to show the rest of us how to survive. So we need a crop of people. I'm serious when I say need I say that with a capital N who can get through what you've gone through and then hopefully you can put together your life. And then there's literally a 287 percent increase in people under the age of 18, 287 percent increase of people who need you. And this is what we're noticing. So this is what we learn from things like, let's just take a quick aside into alcohol research. And I'm not doing a full thing, I'm making some conclusions and there's arguments and stuff. When you look at alcohol, alcoholism, we have great evidence-based treatments and the majority of people get sober on their own or with AA. They don't come to medical professionals. So we have good treatments but the majority of people do without us. And so peer support is crucial. So like literally, I mean I say like we need people who know what it's like to be suicidal and put together your life and then show us the way. Because therapists can do a lot but we cannot substitute for personal experience. This is what we've learned from peer support. So when we look at evidence-based models of addiction treatment, the best thing to find is go see your psychiatrist and then go to AA or refuge recovery or whatever, smart recovery, whatever your choice of peer support is. These two things are not replaceable. So do the best that you all can. I'm here to help you as much as I can. I mean the whole reason I did this is because I felt like it wasn't enough to see people in my office. So unfortunately I can't see you all in my office and also fortunately like I'm here because of that, right? And like go and go and give it a shot. Like go get help and give yourself a pat on the back and be patient with yourself and recognize that just because objectively that your life has sucked up until this moment, I'm not saying you're wrong but I'm also saying you can't predict the future. Sorry. So don't give up. I know it's hard like to a certain extent as much as I can having lived the life that I've lived. And like give it a shot. Like you just don't know. I mean like we as human beings are we're so arrogant. I think we know the future. We don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. The world may end tomorrow or maybe someone will release so like psych it's not Elden Ring DLC it's Elden Ring 2 and then suddenly the suicidality disappears, right? It was like we don't know what life has to offer and life is hard for a lot of people right now but like holy crap like we could be on the maybe you can go to Mars in your lifetime like that's pretty cool. Just give it a shot. Don't give up and we need your help because we can't do without you. I can't do without you, right? We need you. So thank you all very much for coming today and yeah I'll say just to clarify because I think some people on Twitter didn't understand. I am not for suicide. I am for living and trying to put your life together and I sincerely believe that you can have a life that is worth living and if you haven't been able to make one that's okay and also like try to find someone to help you right that doesn't doesn't mean like even if you feel some shame have your therapist work through that with you. All right take care guys.