 I think one concept since we have new people so i'm gonna start talking a little bit about the ego so feral cat was talking a lot about this and i think it was sort of tricky because gamers have a really tricky relationship with ego. So i'd like to explain a little bit about. Sort of my understanding of ego and i'm gonna use some sun script phrases so apologies if if this gets a little bit hard to access. So in some script the ego is something called the hum car so hum car is really more closely translated as the eye feeling. So it's sort of when i think about who i am. I think of that's a hum car so i can describe myself as a man i can describe myself as indian i can describe myself is is a physician i can describe myself as faculty at harvard medical school i can describe myself as a husband is a parent. So those are all things that are my hum car that's not really who i know it's not the true self it's actually the false self. So when i but the problem is that we tend to think that this is who we are so we we i think about a hum car is anything that you can put on a resume. Right i can read a resume that tells me like kind of who you like it tells me about you but the resume doesn't actually tell me who you are. And so a hum car it's tricky because when we think about things like so feral cat was talking about how for a while she was very concerned about. You know the the streamer account i'm sorry the viewer count on her stream so when she started streaming she just streamed for fun but at some point. Her identity her ego got caught up in who she is like sorry who's on the viewer count so like her value as a human being started to get tied into how many subs she has how many viewers she has so that's all ego. So the tricky thing is that a lot of gamers have trouble with ego because the ego of the hum car arises as a protective mechanism so i'm going to give you guys an example. So let's say that i'm let's say that like my first job like I was serving ice cream and so I worked at like an ice cream shop. And there was a let's say that there's a there's a cute girl who's like i'm 16 years old you know i'm working at the ice cream shop I have a co worker who's 16 and she's cute too. And I I get up the courage to ask her out and she says no and then a weird thought goes through my head i'm like talking to my friends about it afterward and i'm like oh yeah like you know I really wasn't that into her anyway like she's not even that attractive. You know I just you know it's like it's really like i'm really not that into her does that make sense to you guys is that like can you guys see how someone would think that. But the funny thing is that that's like completely false right like if I wasn't into her and I didn't find her attractive I wouldn't have asked her out in the first place so like what's going on in your mind there. What's going on is the hum car is activating so let's think through what's actually going on in that person's head so when I ask someone out and they say no I feel some kind of negative emotion right I feel shame. I feel like oh man like I feel shame and like I start to have these really really scary thoughts. And the scary thoughts that I have like I don't really consciously think these but they're like really buried beneath the surface I start to think like is anyone ever going to say yes because like you're 16 and you don't have confidence. You start to feel shame and stuff like that but you bury it real deep you express a little bit of frustration you're like oh man like that's that's annoying. And then what happens is the hum car steps in because I want you guys to understand your ego is actually protective mechanism it's like the bouncer for your mind. And anytime you feel negative emotion the ego is going to step in and it's going to try to protect you so my ego steps in and says hey man like. You don't really like her that much did you like she's not even that attractive like you have nothing to worry about you don't have to feel shame you don't have to feel any of those negative things because you're not really that into her. So then what happens is like your ego activates so ego is a very protective mechanism and then the other thing that the ego does is it starts to like it builds up your identity right it builds up all these false things about you it's like oh man you're awesome like your friends really like you. Yeah so nice guys is a classic that's beautiful so nice guys is all a hum car right these people have this image of themself. Right these people have this image of themself. And the image of themself is like like has this sort of positive shell for like a lot of negativity underneath which is exactly how the hum car works is the hum car doesn't need to be around unless you're experiencing negative emotion. So. Yeah if you guys want to talk about nice guys we can do that and but anyway. We had a couple questions yeah so john john. As we were accepting. Or have you missed. The mask we wear is that a man to be accepted in certain situations is that a manifestation of ego i'd say yes. So i'd say so let's remember that acceptance let's just think about that question so what he's asking is acceptance. Is valuing another person's opinion so if you were bending yourself over backwards for another person's opinion chances are your ego is involved. Another thing that we talked a lot about with feral cat was like the sense of authenticity she was stumbling through this phase where she started streaming and did it because she thought it was fun. And then what happened is like something magical happened in her head. And what happened in her head is she started like not having fun streaming but felt like tied to doing it like when i was listening to her it almost sounded like she was like chained to a ball. And like the ball was like someone tossed the ball in the water and she's like struggling to swim and she started getting like caught up in like viewership and partnerships and subs and all that good stuff. And so she started putting on a mask for other people like for their approval and that's absolutely what the ego is because then her identity becomes as a successful or unsuccessful streamer. Right that's how she and then her value of herself is a human being is determined by the number of viewers she has. So that's that's exactly how you go works. So the tricky thing is that like how do you get around that you start just like living for the sake of like doing what you're doing right you don't worry about what other people are thinking that's difficult. But you start sort of living in kinda like living in the moment because the other thing about the ego in opinions is there all sort of future oriented. So if you think about like you're trying to win someone over you're not trying to win them over in the present you're trying to win them over in the future. Like if i go to a party and i put on a mask like why am i putting on the mask it's because i want to be invited to the next. So the tricky thing is that as long as you're thinking about the future you're gonna be like wrapped up in all this crap one really simple way to move away from ego is to like live in the present. So i think about my resume like my resume is like all about the past and i think about expectations in the future but if i want to step away from ego like look at a sunset. Right like watch a sunset or actually this is a really good one you guys want an interesting meditative exercise. ask yourself the next time you take a dump ask yourself who's taking the dump. Right like are you a man or a woman like are you a student or you do you have a net worth when you're taking a dump like. Does any of that even matter no you're just someone taking a dump when i'm taking a dump i'm no different from anyone else like it doesn't matter that i'm a doctor or not doesn't matter that i'm a man it doesn't matter that i'm a parent i'm just a guy take exactly you're just a human. And the truth is that anytime you do something in the present that's all you are when you're looking at a sunset it doesn't matter who's looking at the sunset. Once again you're not a man or a woman you're just someone who's looking at the sunset. yeah I mean you gotta watch out constipation is a dangerous thing you guys you know you're joking about that, but like you guys ever heard of a manual disimpaction you guys know what that is. Not funny dude seriously like i've worked with people who are suicidal from not being able to take a dump like it's bad yeah it's like. So I was working with this woman who was like 70 something and had like cancer like stage four cancer and one day I asked her like what's the worst part of your life and she's like it's the constipation like she was on pain medications and it's just like it's the worst feeling like it's just awful. But it looked like we had another question okay. So is it ego if your viewers are your lifeline as in. It can be right, so the question is how do you view it right it so I put it another way like so is your job your ego for some people, the answer is absolutely yes and for some people the answer is absolutely no so for some people their job is just a job and for some people it's their identity. So I work with a lot of like executives like like CEOs and things like that and for a lot of these people it's like it's really tough like i'm working with someone right now who. Recently kind of got. into a problem with like board members and other people in this company so he's out and, and this is a company that he had been a huge part of had built. Like from tiny to big and so like that's who he was because like that's what he did like that his his entire he had sacrificed so much of his life like all of his best years of his life. To become this thing in this company and then someone took it away from him and when they took it away from him like who is he then he's like he feels like a no one. And so we're working to start to discover okay like who are you really I think the beautiful thing about his karma is karma is that he's given he's been given like. An amazing opportunity to discover who he is, because if he had not left that company, he would just be have boarded that train and will be chugging along and then like 10 years later, he would have a midlife crisis. And that's what yeah so like all these crises that people experience is because you build up this identity of who you are. And then, if something attacks that external thing you as a human being your identity gets attacked, but if all I am is a dude who's taking a dump. Like no one can take that away from me well, I mean I guess you could be constipated but like from watching a sunset if i'm just like if i'm existing in the moment. And i'm just doing what i'm doing like even if it's playing a video game or like eating a piece of food or studying for a test in that moment if all i'm doing is that thing and I don't care about who I am. Then it's not ego so right now i'm streaming and so, is this a part of my identity like not really i'm just like I just get up here like basically what I do in my life is I talk at people. So sometimes you know i'm a therapist and so like someone comes to my office and like I talk at them slash to them sometimes I run a workshop or I give lectures and so I just like I show up and I just sort of say things now. You know is this a part of my ego not yet but if i'm not careful the same thing is going to happen to me right so right now I see that I have 45 viewers if i'm not. If i'm not. I'm not you know if i'm not careful like that number is going to start meaning something to me because i'm not any better or worse than feral cat or anyone else who streams. There are parts of my brain that value that thing because that's the way my brain is wired there are parts of our brain that develop when we're in puberty that start to like really care about the opinions of others. And the reason that that happens in puberty so if you think about like why high school is such a tough time there's a really fascinating cognitive thing that happens in high school which is that your brain develops the capacity to understand that people have sustained nuanced opinions of yourself. So like if you talk to a nine year old they have this idea that you know someone likes me or doesn't like me when you're 15 you start to realize that people have sustained opinions about you that are like complicated. And why does that happen in in high school it's because like when we start to develop like as we go through puberty we prepared a mate and a big part of mating is actually like social circuitry and are standing within a society. So those are linked like the developmental kind of the development of ego that happens when you're a teenager and sexual development are linked in those parts of my brain are active too. So is is streamers start to like as they start to develop a value of themselves as a human being based on the amount of like viewers they have that's absolutely ego. The other thing though is that there may be some streamers out there I don't really know who understand that they have inherent value as a person and so they don't need to get that value from the external world. Right and if we circled once once again back to feral cat we were talking about her how her mom. Her mom cares what other people think and a lot of the grief that happens between feral cat and her mom is because feral cat is concerned about how I mean sorry for cats mom is concerned about how things are going to look. Right so if there are people who are concerned about how things are going to look that's all ego. So you can stream and you can sort of live your life and you can try to make a good product I mean I'm sure there's a lot of you know calculation that goes into a successful stream in terms of like timing and advertising and all that. And like widgets and things like that but it doesn't have to be ego but I would guess for most of the people it is and the main reason for that is because most streamers are young right so most people like you know they find themselves like in their 40s. Or they have a midlife crisis if they haven't found themselves but it takes time to develop confidence in who you are as a person. And I think that if you start streaming early you really have to be careful about you have to start doing additional things to help yourself develop a healthy identity for yourself that sort of separate from your ego. If you guys are curious we can talk about that. Oh. Oh. Related to this. Sure. Rejection manifestation disorder. So I don't know what that is a clinical term but I have a lot of experience with ADHD. I believe. It is you will proceed negative. In situations that are actually. Yes so that I understand so but yeah so I mean it sort of makes sense to me. So let's also let's talk a little bit about ADHD and rejection sensitivity dysphoria. So rejection sensitivity dysphoria I mean I'm not familiar with it sort of in a clinical technical term but it you know I understand the psychology behind it like is essentially you know when someone. Perceives a lot of negative things and suffers a lot from either rejections or perceived rejections. So I think this has to do a lot with. Yeah so so I mean it makes a lot of sense to me too I wasn't sure if there was like a particular definition of it that I was unfamiliar with. So this makes a lot of sense to me so I think this goes back to some ideas behind like cognitive bias and actually senses of identity. So when we approach like this kind of mental stuff I actually think Eastern perspectives are better than Western perspectives. So sometimes what happens is human beings have this really crazy thing where they like if they believe something about themselves. They have this kind of cognitive bias to sort of like prove it to be true. So for example I'll give you guys just an example of someone that I used to work with was afraid that their partner was going to break up with them they were like terrified that their partner was going to break up with them. And so they would actually like do things to like push their partner to break up with them and they would like drive their partner crazy. And it was kind of weird but they'd say like oh absolutely like a self-fulfilling prophecy they're like that like you know the person would come home and then be like yeah you're going to break up with me aren't you. And then like if you're the partner in that situation like what are you going to say you're like no I'm not going to break up with you. But then the person is like no I like you're going to you're going to break up with me like I just I know it like I'm going to do something and like and then the partner gets frustrated. And so then this person like then sees the frustration and then they start to think it's true they're like oh it's happening right now right. You're mad at me now and now you're going to break up with me because now you're mad and then the more like I insist that this person is going to break up with me the more frustrated that they get. And the more that like I feel like this is actually happening and so it becomes kind of a self-fulfilling prophecy. And so this is a problem because the mind has this bias for like the kind of information that it interprets. And so when it comes to rejection sensitivity this is a problem essentially of confidence. So there's a weird thing that happens to their hum car where they believe that they're like not like worthwhile human beings. And so what happens is that there's a there's actually like there's there's studies that sort of show this negative cognitive bias like studies on depression. Where if you know if I have a low opinion of myself and then like I walk into let's say I enter a conversation with a person and I'm like I'm going to break up with you. And then like I walk into let's say I enter a conversation where I get 50% compliments and 50% insults like what's going to happen is I'm going to prioritize the insults over the compliments. And the other crazy thing that happens is if you really have low self-confidence what do you think happens when someone compliments you what do you say in response. Absolutely right. You you don't you don't accept it. Yeah so now now just think about that for a second right like so imagine that you have a brain that is being presented with positive data but then you just discount the data. Right like you just throw it out. And then what happens is when there's negative data like that we're going to accept like that's a legitimate that's a legitimate judgment. If you think I'm a fuck up I can get behind that but if you think I'm a good person no no no no you're wrong. Right and so then what happens is it reinforces your your lack of confidence because all of the positive information that you're receiving actually gets thrown out the window. And then. Then what happens is like it only reinforces it so then you kind of get into this vicious cycle that you kind of can't get out of. Because if people are trying to help you if they're trying to reassure you like let's say once again you know I'm convinced that my partner is going to break up with me my partner can be doing everything that they can to reassure me and it's just not sinking in. And so the reason for that is because the lack of self-confidence actually comes from somewhere else and so that needs to be addressed with directly. And once you start to address it directly then you can start to conquer rejection sensitivity syndrome. Because rejection sensitivity syndrome has nothing to do with being rejected it actually has everything to do with your belief that the only thing that's appropriate. Is. Rejection you just won't accept anything else so you have to learn how to like develop confidence in yourself as a person. And then like move from there. So I think we have other questions and comments let me just think for a second. Another question yeah. This is back to the. What if you feel like you are very confident. You still handle compliments. Yeah then then you're not a confident person. Right so that's where you feel like you're confident but it's like let's just think about so sorry the question was. You know what if what if you're a con what if you feel like you're a confident person but you handle compliments and insults the same way and I'm assuming the same way means that you knock down compliments and you accept insults. Then I'd say that in your core of self you're not confident because if you were truly confident in yourself you could be unbiased with the way that you receive things. And so you may have an impression of being confident or that you may be confident in some areas because confidence is not like a monolith right it's not like one quality you can be confident in your appearance versus in your ability to like play dota or overwatch or fortnight versus your ability to like be financially independent. So confidence has a lot of different dimensions what I guess is that either you have learned how to act confident in a particular way or that you're confident in a particular environment but that there's a particular there's some part of you that doesn't feel confident in who you are. And so you just have to tunnel down and try to figure out okay what is it that I'm confident in myself about and like why is it that I can't accept a compliment like what about that feels wrong to me when someone. You know looks at me and says like oh yeah like you know you're a very attractive person like what why do I feel like I'm not attractive you know why can't I sit with what they're saying and just accept it for what it is where did I get the idea that I am not the way that this person is thinking I am. Oh God so body dysmorphia for bodybuilders is one of the most difficult things to treat in psychiatry. So I don't know if this really answers your question but so when we talk about generally speaking like psychiatric illness and I even then I mean I don't really like the idea of psychiatric illness because it's based on like a Western medical model like by medical I mean like physical medicine. So psychiatry followed along with like cancer and disease in other ways but our minds aren't like that you know like a heart attack is like a very real thing whereas body dysmorphia is like sort of a it's a description that we have for someone's mind it's not necessarily like an illness. We call it an illness because it causes people suffering but but here's the big thing to understand about body dysmorphia and we're trying to help people with psycho psychological stuff. The first question is whether something is ego sin tonic or ego dystonic and this is a different ego from what I was talking about earlier this is like a clinical term. So ego sin tonic is something that people like agree with internally and ego dystonic is something that people like disagree with internally. So I'll give you guys an example. So a lot of people say that they're OCD because they like to keep things clean. That's very ego sin tonic like they want things clean and if you try to tell them to relax they're going to fight you against it right versus something that like true OCD is when people recognize that they're going to be okay. After they've done it for the ninth time in a row with blistering hot water and excessive amounts of bleach but they literally cannot stop because they have a compulsion that is so strong like their hands are wrapped in bandages and they take off the bandages and they'd like mix soap with bleach and they rub them because they feel unclean. That is true OCD and that is very ego dystonic. The person is doing it but they know that they don't want to do it and they don't feel good doing it versus someone who's a neat freak is ego sin tonic which means they don't think there's anything wrong with what they're doing. They're convinced that what they're doing is the right way to do it. So the tricky thing about body dysmorphia. So there are two kinds of like people who come in with like problems about their appearance. You know some people like recognize that it's a problem and they say like okay you know I know I'm not like I feel unconfident in my appearance but like I'm trying to work on that and I don't want to feel that way anymore. The problem with the bodybuilders I've worked with is that they don't start there. They don't think they have a problem at all. They're just convinced that it's factually true that their body does not look good enough. It's not an issue in their psychology. They don't want to change. They just think it's like I just don't look good enough and I need to train harder so that I can look better. And despite being in the top one percentile of the population in terms of like body fat or like musculature or how much they can bench press they're just not unsatisfied because their beliefs are actually really ego sin tonic. They don't see a problem with what what's going on. So I mean I think I think it's tricky because how do you convince someone so that then we kind of get into denial right so like how do you convince someone that they have a problem. That's a whole different can of worms which is tricky. Sure. Could you comment on the word wordage of easy you're currently take talking about confidence and I think part of it is the concept of easy in instruction and teaching I will often hear how are you not confident in your abilities it's easy I really dislike the concept of easy so do I. So I think that's stupid to be honest so I mean so I am confident right like you guys probably get that impression but no one along the way did I say that this was easy like sure I you know I'm confident in myself and I think you guys can be successful if you're struggling. But nowhere do I think it's easy I think calling something easy is one of the most devaluing things that you can do because let's just think about that for a second. If you say that how are you not confident in your abilities it's easy like if you think about what you're telling the person is that they're incompetent right because you're like how can you not do this it's so fucking easy like yours it the easier it is so if something is super super easy and they're not doing it that means that they're super super idiotic right. Right so I think that like calling things easy is a really really big mistake I don't think that confidence is easy and I think if someone else. Is calling something that you're struggling with easy they just really don't understand or have not faced what you are facing they just really have no idea. So one example is that you know so let's say that like you have social anxiety and then like a buddy of yours doesn't and they're like I don't know I don't know what the problem is why don't you just go to a party and hang out man it's just easy just like don't think about it like just try to have a good time man. But they have no idea what your what's at they have never experienced in your mind what what you are experiencing. And so you know if someone says that like you know how are you not confident in your abilities it's easy like you have to pause for a second the first thing is that they probably don't understand what you're actually going through and the second thing is that you should really think a little bit about. You know why why is it that this person perceives such respect in my abilities and I do not. So I think if you want to grow there what you really have to do is grapple with yourself why is it that everyone else sees me as amazing and I don't like where does that come from why is it hard because it is hard because it was easy you'd be doing it like that's stupid why is it hard for you to see yourself that way. I'm asking the ego and the earlier. Is that self destructive. I know so this is a great question so suddenly no so people do all kinds of destructive self destructive shit which is completely go sentonic all the time. And in fact I'd even say that the more self destructive it is the more likely it is to be ego sentonic. So if we think about self destructive behavior it's things that you do to yourself so repeat the question so ego to stop is ego to stop it like self destructive behavior. So what's the relationship between being ego to stop it and self destructive so I would actually say that most people who do. And by the way guys I really appreciate your patience with like me learning the ropes of this stuff I'm new to this and your feedback and stuff is awesome so thank you for letting me know when I'm doing something wrong and please let me know if I need to be doing something differently. But just kind of going back to ego to sonic and self destructive behavior so if you think about like really self destructive behavior most of the stuff that self destructive people aren't really aware of. Right like if you're thinking about self sabotaging relationships or. Like let's say that you you know you you have a tendency to like date the wrong kind of person so there's a lot of stuff that I work with that's really self destructive and what I've actually found is that self destructive behaviors ego sentonic. You don't recognize that self destructive in fact you think what you're doing is exactly right even though like you're torpedoing some part of your life. That make sense. Yeah so like this is where it's it's not it's not ego dis tonic at all like you sure you suffer later but the thing about ego dis tonic is that someone doesn't want to be doing what they're doing in the moment exactly. So they don't want to be doing what they want to do in the moment and like someone with true OCD can't help themselves they have to wash their hands, even though they know that they shouldn't and that they don't want to. And so when it comes to self destructive behavior a lot of that stuff is like ignoring red flags it's like you know and you think that you're doing everything right even though you're doing everything wrong and so that kind of self reflection is tricky and difficult. Yeah so locking the door usually repetitive behaviors. Okay well we'll do like maybe one or two more questions and then we'll wrap up for the day or we'll transition to like doing a little bit of meditation and then I have one or two closing thoughts because we've been talking about a lot about confidence and so I want to share just a little bit about how to become confident. We have any other questions or should we transition. Okay. I think we've gotten to most of them. So I'm just going to talk to you guys a little bit so you know we're talking about confidence we're talking about it's hard so in my mind like talking about this stuff really is not going to change all's lives right like you're I mean. So. Let me just tell you guys so a simple way that I think you should you can develop confidence is so we've talked a lot about ego and go for it we'll. We've talked a lot about ego and we've talked a lot about you know how streamers and other people in general like how our identity starts to be built up based on how others judge you know how you're going to be judged. You know how streamers and other people in general like how our identity starts to be built up based on how others judge us so I think one of the best things you can do for your confidence is to do something that no to challenge yourself in a way that no one can judge you. And the simplest way to do that is to do things in nature. So what I would recommend that you guys do is like like go like to a national park or something and like find a boulder like be safe but I remember like there was a time when I was I would just like go out in nature and I would just like do stuff. Like I would look at some point on a hill and I would say to myself I'm going to get to the top of that hill or I would like look at a boulder and I'd be like I'm going to see if I can climb that boulder. And sometimes I would succeed and sometimes I would fail but the cool thing about nature is like nature doesn't give a fuck like nature doesn't care whether you succeed or fail it doesn't care about living up to expectations are not living up up to expectations. And when you succeed this is a tricky thing about confidence is when you do something in the real world like what's just as damaging or insidious for your confidence is the reward. Right if I get if I become valedictorian of my high school I'm screwed because my ego is going to like take a boost from that right. So whether you do good things whether you get bullied in high school or you get praise for how smart you are both of them are going to screw you over and lead to ego and move you away from confidence. So the simple solution is to spend time with nature because nature doesn't care nature doesn't care if you're you're fat or skinny it doesn't care if you're strong or you're weak it doesn't care if you're smart or you're stupid it doesn't care if you're good looking or bad looking. And so your brain needs time away from all of those thoughts so like go in like swim somewhere go and climb something. For a long time like a big part of my personal growth was like I would go mountain climbing so I spent like you know time in in Colorado mountain climbing I spent time in like. Climb Kilimanjaro and things like that it was it was like an awesome experience like go and spend time with nature because nature doesn't judge you. Nature just it just doesn't and what you really need to do to develop confidence is being a judgment free zone.