 Dr. K, what do you struggle with? You're AOE healing tons of people, but you're so busy helping others that you never took the time to explain what you struggle with in a video. What do you struggle with? Oh, chat. Okay, let's try to understand something, okay? I don't, the truth is I don't struggle much. And the reason I don't struggle much is because I figured out how I work. So prior to, so this person is saying like, I spend so much time thinking about other people, why don't I share what I, because I figured out what works for me, right? So I struggled a lot before, and I'll give you guys just an example. So like while, before I understood that I was a vata and I started crafting my life around being a vata, before that I used to struggle a ton, okay? So like, just to remind people, vatas are people whose minds are like the wind. So I get distracted easily, I get bored easily, I get excited easily. And what I found is that like, that was really challenging because the world does not support people who are creative, distractible, excitable, and like shift, right? The world, our current society is structured to support people who are like focused, driven, ambitious, and like consistent. That's what matters to people, right? Like if you look at school, school is about eight hours a day, followed by studying. A degree is gained over four years. And so when I went to college, like I got super excited about stuff. So my first year of college, I ran for student government, I joined a bunch of clubs, I joined a frat, I took Spanish, Japanese, Spanish and Japanese as language, I took a philosophy class, I took a chemistry class, failed most of those classes. And so like, I was so excitable and distractible that I kind of wanted to do everything. It was cool. And it sucked. I failed at all of it. And so then what started to happen is like, as I started to fail at things, I got like more stressed out and I was really easy, it was really easy for me to drop stuff too. So on the one hand, I'm excited by Japanese class. And on the other hand, like I'm doing bad in Spanish class. So let me just quit Spanish and do Japanese. So I was like, it was really easy for me to be a quitter. And college was this kind of environment where like, it doesn't reward people for being quitters, duh. Okay. And so for a long time, I struggled and like I struggled bad and was like, I imagine super depressed in retrospect, like felt like I was failing life and stuff like that. And then I went to India. Like, so this went on for two years, failed a bunch of classes, I had like a 1.5 GPA or something, managed to pass something here or there. So it wasn't like a zero, but like got a couple of Cs, a D here or there, maybe a B. I don't think I got a single A in my first two years. So then actually, there's one piece of the story that's missing. So then as I struggled, I went to my dad and I asked my dad, I was like, hey, like, I need help. Actually I didn't ask him, he was like, you're doing too many things, you need to stop doing stuff. So he's like, stop doing student government, stop doing your clubs. So I did all that. And I was like, okay, I'm doing too many extracurriculars, I just need to focus. He was like, just focus on your studies. I was like, okay, dad. So I cut everything else out, same result. And I was like, oh my God, I'm so dumb. And then he was like, okay, just focus on your studies. So I was like, you know what, if I can't handle five classes, I'm gonna take three. So I cut down to half a normal course load, same result. And then I went to India and I was like, this doesn't make any sense. I was trying to do too much. So if you're trying to do too much, the solution is do less, right? So I went to India and one of my teachers was like, that's a terrible idea. Oh my God, you're destined for failure if you just do one thing, you're gonna get bored. And I was like, wait, what? And so what my friend or teacher, what they told me was that you're a vata and so what that means for your temperament is that you're gonna get bored easily. So you need to have three or four different things that you do where you can switch from one to the next. So like when you get bored, the next thing's ready for you. But the cool thing is by the time you get to thing number three and you get bored of that, you can get excited about thing number one again and thing number one will be fun. And I was like, oh, fascinating. So what I did is like structure a life where, you know, like I understand my temperament and once I understand my temperament, I can structure the life to be aligned with my temperament. And so now I sort of don't struggle much. Do I make mistakes? Yes. Is my life hard in some ways? Yes. Do I deal with what on paper seems stressful? Like, absolutely. But I think the key thing about like not struggling is like understanding like what's your temperament. So as a vata, like the key weaknesses of vata that will cause you to struggle is that first of all, you exist in a bit the society. So what that means is that like people are gonna be more ambitious than you, that people are gonna be more dedicated than you. But what you bring to the table is like creativity, excitement, spontaneity and like being dynamic. So the cool thing is that like when a crisis happens, vatas are awesome because they learn fast. So they can deal with things. They can manage a bunch of different stuff coming at you. Whereas vatas are like, I need a system to deal with this or this does not work in the system. And we can kind of see this, right? Like, well, like they're gonna be like, this may be a random example, but you know, so when like the Me Too movement was happening in universities, they were like really slow to respond, right, because they had their system. And like the Me Too movement like didn't jive with their system. And so they couldn't deal with it. So if you look at institutions, like when allegations of sexual problems started coming out, the bit the oriented institutions were like, we can't deal with this. So we're gonna pretend it's not there. Meanwhile, you look at Twitter, where Twitter is super vata. So Twitter like could handle the Me Too movement like that, right? Like Twitter is adaptable. It's dynamic. It has a short attention span. And so when something like the Me Too movement arises, Twitter can respond to it very quickly. So it's not that being ambitious and disciplined is better. It's that most of our structures are designed to be that way. And furthermore, that that makes certain weaknesses in those structures. And if you look at the companies and institutions that responded to the Me Too movement better, they're the ones who had dynamic leaders who were a little bit more vata. And they're like, okay, we have to throw our current playbook out the window and let's figure out how to deal with this crisis now. And I've seen this in startup consulting too, where like, if you've got like, you know, people who are too pit though will like not be able to deal with a dynamic environment and they'll start to fall apart. And then for people who are kaffa, you know, kaffas tend to be like slow and methodical. So even, so if you're a kaffa, like in a pit, the environment, what you'll sort of find is that other people are like lobbying for promotions and they're gunning, right? Like they're ambitious and you're like, oh crap, like maybe I should be more ambitious. It's not like you're all over the place and you're scattered. You're just kind of like, you know, you're kind of chilling. Like you like your job, you're dedicated at your job. You care about your job, but other people are like fiery. They're like, I want to get promoted. I want to do this, I want to do this, I want to do this. And kaffas are sort of like, I'm actually okay doing this. And should you advocate for a promotion? Like, absolutely, right? You have to learn how to be a little bit more pit though. But what's the other advantage is like, if you're a kaffa, like in a pit, if you have a company full of pit, everyone's going to fight, right? Everyone's going to be lobbying at the promotion and be like resentful towards each other and then crap like that. Whereas like kaffas will be like a stabilizing influence. So I think the key thing, the reason I don't struggle is because like I've sort of figured out like how I work. And that's why I try to explain like, you know, my whole ethos is like bros or women, whatever, everything in between. Homies, let me explain something to you. If y'all understand how motivation works, it will transform your life. No one explains this stuff. Like the reason I don't struggle is because like, I understand, right? I'm not saying I'm special. It's not like I'm brilliant. In fact, I'd say the opposite. The whole point is like what I found in India was that actually this stuff is pretty simple. It's just, we don't teach it, right? Like we don't teach this stuff. So if you guys want to struggle, you know, what I'd say is continue trying to be what you're not. And if you want to not struggle, understand who you are, understand your strengths, understand your weaknesses, understand the environment that you're in and try to tailor your life to adapt to where you are. Right, so this is where like as a resident, for example, like I would write when I was on call. So other people will be on call. And I was like, this is cool. I'm here for 24 hours. Like I can see a patient and I can write. And so like I wrote, you know, 80,000 words over the course of like six weeks and wrote a nonfiction book about video game addiction. And it was like, just did that in six weeks. So that's something that Avata can do. Now you asked me to write something like, you know, Game of Thrones and like, I don't have, like it takes a guffa to write Game of Thrones and like GRRM seems pretty guffa to me. It's like this long marathon of like, you know, I can't write that. I can spit out a book in six weeks, but it's gonna be random. It's gonna be all over the place. And it's like, you don't know what you're gonna get. You know, like Twitch is perfect for me. It's like, y'all are chatting at me and like asking me all these random questions in my Avata mind's like, sweet, let's do it. It is so much harder for me to teach at Harvard Medical School than it is for me to teach on Twitch. And so the reason I don't struggle is because I teach here. This is what I'm good at. Whereas, wait, you wrote season eight. Oh, I wish. Actually, if I had written season eight, I think it would have been better, right? So like early chat is right. It's random, dude. Like I'm good at randomness. Like you can give me RNG. Would you say most people in Harvard or pit this? I don't know. So I do think that if you look at like certain executive leadership positions, I'm pretty sure there's a bias towards pit though. We should just crowdsource season eight, dude. Like I've seen so many like fan, like it would be better if like the best season eight fan theory that I thought was like, there was this thing about, okay, I shouldn't say it because spoilers, but. Okay, so spoilers, all right, if people haven't seen it. So I'm gonna talk about this for a second. I'm gonna count to five and then spoiler free. Okay, one, two, three, four, five. So like the Night King, instead of Arya showing up out of nowhere and just killing the Night King, I saw this great thing about how like, you know, like the Night King defeats everyone and then like Jaime Lannister shows up and he's like, you know what they call me? And then the Night King is like what? And he's like, King Slayer. And then Jaime gets his fucking redemption arc. He kills the Night, it's like, you can, that's so easy, man. Like just have Jaime kill the Night King. It's like such a small thing. It fits so much. The guy's, he's called King Slayer. You're working on a redemption arc and he fucking gets crushed by mortar. Like what the fuck? Like what? It's like low hanging fruit. Low hanging fruit chat. We can literally crowdsource a better, if we sat down and like we were like, Twitch writes Game of Thrones season eight, we could literally make something better, whatever. So I see lots of people saying, Jaime sucks. Jaime should have killed Cersei instead of the Night King. Like what? Like any of that would have been better than, you know, there's so much character development about like Jaime not being a Lannister and like growing, you know, something, like he's changing, right? And then he just like runs Cersei at the end and they just both die, like what the fuck? Yeah, what would be cool though is, you know, I don't know why people aren't writing books, but like Patrick Rothfuss streams, right? He streams. I think we gotta get like all these folks like Patrick Rothfuss, George R.R. Martin and Scott Lynch. And we gotta do some like solid coaching with them to help them overcome whatever it is that's keeping them from writing, right? Like let's start a group for writers who have books that we wanna read and use our power for good instead of helping y'all fuckers put your lives together. Like who the fuck cares about that? Let's get wins a winner. Let's get that stuff out there. Like whatever it takes, we'll teach them how to meditate. We'll teach them how to focus. We'll teach them how to overcome their internal, you know, like fears, like, cause there's a lot of stuff. I've actually worked with successful artists and there's like, there's stuff there, right? Like, cause success can be like one of the most paralyzing things because when you're writing your first book, right? I can only imagine. Like when you're writing your first book, it's like, you just have to write it for you. It's the story that you wanna tell. And we see this a lot actually in our content creator program is that the bigger you become, the more creatively constrained you become. It's kind of weird. Cause then what happens is like, there's something that the people want from you. And the formula that you use to create the first thing was not giving people what you want. It's giving people what was in your heart. And the more successful you become, the more your mind gets caught up in giving people what they want because they liked so much about what was in your heart. And then it gets really, really challenging because it gets hard to access this in here because you don't know if people are gonna be satisfied with it. And the more that you start caring about the people, the worse your art becomes. And so it's weird, but it happens and it's challenging. Yeah, so I mean, people are saying like money leads the world and stuff. It's like, it's tough. But I think like as fans, so we have a certain responsibility to this, right? Because like, what do you want from people? Do you want them to give you what they gave you before or do you want them to give you what they have to give? And as fans, the more we are able to accept what authors give us, even if we don't like it, like, and we can say like, hey, I'm glad you tried that. We're glad you gave us this anyway, even though it's not my cup of tea. Like, thank you. It's not my favorite, but I'm glad you did it. And I'm glad you innovate it and I'm glad you tried. I have a weird issue, Dr. K. Lately when I tune into your stream, when we touch on something that might be relatable to me, I start getting kind of anxious. How do I fix that? You don't fix it. You feel anxious and then you ask yourself, why am I feeling anxious? Where is this coming from? Right? Like you understand it. Like, this is the thing. You guys want to not struggle, understand, right? Think about like all of the games that you play where you don't understand the mechanics and like, what happens? You struggle. And once you understand the mechanics, it's like, oh, this is how this works. So I play some Dota and I'll tell you that the place that I struggle the most is Dota. And the reason I struggle in Dota is because oftentimes I don't understand it, right? Like, why is this carry doing this thing? Oh my God, I can't believe he's doing it. Oh my God, this carry is so bad. This is so bad. Everyone's so bad. And I don't understand. I don't understand the greatest revelation chat, the greatest revelation. I'm the one who's bad chat. I'm the one who's bad. And once you begin to understand that, once you begin to understand, oh, I should have been doing this. Oh, the reason that like we lost this game is because their supports were stacking camps and I wasn't. The more you understand, the less you struggle. And then you start winning games. It all comes down to video games chat. All lessons of life can be learned. So what should you do when you come in here and you feel anxious? Let yourself feel anxious. What's up with that? Don't try to make it go away. Try to understand where it's coming from. That's the biggest problem of our society today. We're so hell bent about trying to make things go away instead of understanding where they come from. If you talk about like, you know, like I'll see this a lot. We choose to just, we just love to hate whatever the hate of the week is. We hate something every week is a society. You know? And it's like, I saw this a lot. Like I still remember like talking to, so when Trump won the US election in 2016, like people, you know, in my residency program were very upset, which is understandable. A lot of people were really upset. And like everyone was talking about, like everyone loves talking about how Trump supporters are idiots. But like my point is like, do you guys get that, like a bunch of people voted for this guy? And like, what are they thinking? You can't just call them stupid. Cause there's something there that is causing these people to vote for this person. If you guys really want like things to change, we need to understand those people instead of calling them stupid. And we see the same thing. It's like, oh, my son is addicted to video games. He's such a waste of space. It's like, try to understand him. That's what we tell our parents that come to our program. Like we'll get this often where parents will be like, my kid needs to be in your coaching program. I'm like, does your kid want to be in my coaching program? No, he doesn't. Why do you think your kid needs to be in our coaching program? Cause he's wasting his life. Okay, so like we're happy to take him if he wants to be there, but if he doesn't want to be there, we won't take him. What we'd love to do is take you. He's like, I don't need coaching. He's the one with the problem. I'm like, okay, in my experience, the parents who think that way are the ones that benefit the most from our coaching program. And like half of them will be like, no, I don't need nothing. It's my kid that's the problem. And the ones that show up are transformed in 12 weeks. They're like, wow, I never realized. Yes, that is why you were struggling. And once you realize the struggles will stop.