 Hey, Dr. K, in the past, you mentioned what contributes to making friends, meeting potential partner on planned regular interaction plus shared goal. What are your thoughts on and tips regarding meeting people over the internet and online dating now that is our only option? Side question, how do you jump a bridge between introductory small talk and free flowing conversation? I've matched with girls on Tinder, not exclusive to online interaction before virus met people with something in common at parties, but never started a conversation, being terrified of not knowing what I should say to spark interest and have the other side engage back. Is there something internally holding back that I should think about and digest or is there a technique that can help me get through? Okay, so chat, I've been thinking about this for a long time. I think we got to come up with like a, you know, how to date and meet people by Dr. K. Because I'm okay, we're going to talk about this. Okay, okay. How do you jump a bridge between introductory small talk and free flowing conversation? Being terrified of not knowing what I should say to spark interest and have the other side engage back. So this is the key thing. Okay. All right. So let's think about this. Okay, chat. All right, stay with me now. Okay. So here's the thing. When y'all talk to someone, it's not your job to spark interest. It's not your job to make the other person engage back. I want you guys to think about interactions with, we're going to assume a heteronormative and male standpoint. Your job is not to make them like you or get them interested. Your job, you're like a street vendor who has a table of stuff that is laid out, right? So your job is to lay out the stuff on the table and if they're interested, they'll play the game. It's not about saying the right thing or the wrong thing. It's about saying what you have to say. And so like put yourself out there, right? So I don't mean dick pic, that's a terrible idea under all circumstances. But I mean like, especially if you're a male, do a little bit of the male dance. And so there's small talk, but then like, I think there are a couple of questions that you can ask. What was 2020 like for you? So that's like a great kind of open-ended question. But generally speaking, you want to show people like who you are. And if they're interested in that, they'll engage with you. And if they're not interested in that, they won't. But what you don't want to do is like try to get them to spark interest and try to get them to engage with you by like being something that's inauthentic. Because then it's like you're just setting yourself up for failure down the road. So just be who you are and be authentic. As it turns out, in my experience, most women find that attractive, right? When you're just like authentic and fun. And like when you're cognitively focused on like enjoying yourself and being who you are, as opposed to like trying to be something that you're not, which is like so cognitively intense that you're like living a lie and there's all this like subconscious processing going on. Like you just can't, you're not relaxed. You're overthinking it. You're less fun. So just be who you are and let other people engage. I mean, even if you're a woman, it goes both ways, right? You shouldn't try to be a particular thing for a man. Or if you're gay, you shouldn't try to be a particular thing for your partner or someone that you're attracted to. Just be who you are and display that. And for the people that are interested, they'll respond. So does that make sense? Like I want you guys to not try to get something to get them to like you. It's sort of like be who you are. And if they're interested, great, because you're probably pretty interesting. And if they're interested, cool. So like then you guys can build on that. And it's like, it's a relationship that's founded on authenticity. Now how do you break in between small talk and free flowing conversation? This is where like you got to like, there's some notes to take here. Okay. So open-ended question followed by like investigative response, and then a little bit of sharing. So like there's where, oh, what was 2020 like for you? Oh, interesting. Okay. Oh, wow. That sounds crazy. Oh, you got a cat. Cool. Tell me about your cat. Awesome. And then you're like, yeah, you can toss in like, I'm definitely allergic to cats. But now it's like tough because I clearly want to meet your cat and I'm totally into you, but I'm allergic to cats. So it's like, do I choose allergies or continuing to shoot my shot with you? I don't know. And then like, this is also where like I'd make your intentions known like pretty early. Okay. You got to let her know. Like you got to flirt bros. You know, you can be like, oh man, that's a real pity. But you know, maybe I can learn to live with allergies for like if it involves you, like absolutely. I can learn to adjust. And then you see how they respond to that. Like if they're like, oh my god, this guy's a creeper. And then you're like, okay, back off a little bit. Maybe you overplayed your hand or she giggles, in which case it's like, yeah, let's go baby. And so, you know, introductory small talk and then like actually get to know the person because what you're thinking about is like you're thinking about dating this person, right? So like you want to get to know like, is this person interesting? What are they into? What are you into? You know, how does that and then like try to engage with them around topics that like seem interesting to both of you guys. So ask a couple of open ended questions. You know, I think there are a lot of questions that people tend to ask that like people feel put on the spot. So steer clear of yes or no questions. Steer clear of like questions about like, you know, if you want to do like, what do you do for a living? I don't think that's an interesting question. You know, what was 2020 like for you is a good one. You know, what's something that you're excited about for 2021 is a good one, right? So you get to like learn a little bit about their interests. You can be like authentically curious about what they have to say. You can share a little bit. I think there are like a lot of questions like that that you can ask that that will sort of open up the discussion. What do you think about love? I think that sounds like it's coming on a bit too strong. Is Dr. K a pick up artist? Certainly not. The person I picked up was 17 years ago, so I'm dated to say the least. Yeah, smiling is important, right? And then like the other thing is, remember, you all can be authentic. So this is like this is the. This is this is what I think is sort of the trump card, which can really like you can make or break you. But if you're having trouble talking to a girl because you don't know, like what to say to her, just walk up to her and be like, for the last 10 minutes, I've been trying to think about how to strike up a conversation with you because I think you're absolutely gorgeous and I haven't been able to come up with anything. Can you help me out? Just tell her, like, lay it out there, like, be authentic and like, I've been racking my brain because I'd love to get to know you better, but I just can't think of anything. Right. And and just be authentic, dudes. Right, be authentic. And then we'll see how she responds and she's like, oh, yeah, you know, that's a sweet thought, but I'm really not interested. And you can say, OK, thanks. Thanks for letting me know. I really appreciate it. Enjoy the rest of your night. And then you don't go barking up the wrong tree like you. It's also like very important to respect boundaries, right? Like you don't want to push them. And then you can even like so this is where you can do a little bit of like asking for permission and you can say, OK, I get what you're saying. Sounds like you're not interested. If I think of something good later on in the night, like, let's say the two of you all are at a bar or whatever, like if I think of something really, really good. Can I take another, you know, can I take another swing? And then she'll either say yes or no. And like that's like you're asking for permission, you're making your intentions known, you're respecting her boundaries, but you're also letting her know, like, you're not going to quite give up right away. And then if she says like, yeah, you can take another shot at it. You're like, fantastic. And then I don't know. Based or cringed, I don't know what based means. Right, does that make sense, guys? Like you want to you want to be you want to be like respectful, but you want to be like authentic, like respectful, authentic, you know, respect the boundary. You know, make a laugh, be funny. You know, have confidence. It's like authentic. That's that's that's the way. And then if she's like, no, you know, I'm seeing someone, you're like, awesome. Good for you and good for that dude. Presuming it's a dude. And then you move on with your life. But I can I can fucking guarantee you that over the next 24 hours, she will think about you at least once. At least once. Right. And like, it's cool, like even if she rejects you, which it's not really a rejection, it's just she's seen someone at the end of the day, like you're still going to make her feel good about herself. Right. So like you've made the world like even if it's like rejection on your part, you made the world like a slightly better place because you've you've helped like you've helped a woman or man or whatever, feel attractive and feel wanted by another human being, which is an awesome gift to give. Right. Even if there's no relationship and like it like you guys are way too caught up in how it's like affecting you, like, oh, my God, she said, no, I'm so embarrassed. But like, yeah, she used she said no. But as long as you're not cringe about it, which we'll talk about, you know, cringe is all about boundaries and respecting boundaries. As long as you're not cringe, then, you know, like even if she turns you down, it's like she's going to wake up the next morning and feel like she's an attractive woman, which is like an awesome thing. Right. So we live in a society where we're taught that we're unattractive because of, you know, magazines and Instagram, Instagram filters and all that kind of crap. So if you can help someone feel a little bit attractive about themselves, like, cool. All right.