 Teenage son 16M addicted to video game screams now has headaches and does nothing. So backstory. My son 16 always loved gaming. His older sister bought him a PS4 several years ago as a gift and he had an iPhone for several years too. Wasn't really a problem until last year before the pandemic started. Then he started missing school because he wasn't feeling well, was hard to wake up, seemed moody. We finally figured out that it was because he wasn't going to bed at a good time. Staying up late playing games or watching stuff on his phone. Grade started to suffer as a result too. The pandemic hit and he pretty much gave up on school for the rest of the semester. Only doing the bare minimum. Summer came and we didn't change things up too much. His mother and I are divorced and he spends part of the week with me, he spends part of the week with me and part of the week with her. In the fall we decided to keep him home and do homeschooling because of the pandemic. That only lasted a month or so before he fell back on his old habits. I grounded him from his PS4 and Switch. His iPhone had broken by this point so he didn't have a cell phone any longer. We'd been working with a therapist for my grandson so we talked to her about my son. She suggested that he start earning back his privileges but he had to admit to what caused the loss of privileges and come up with ways to earn the back. He refused. I've shared custody with my ex-wife. She thought I was too strict and only went along with the grounding from video games. While he is with her she was still letting him watch TV and he was the one that was manipulating her into letting him stay home from school for the most part. He missed the most school when he was with her and barely missed when he was with me. After that start of the new year he claimed he had a headache that never went away. That made it to where he couldn't do any school work at all, so he claims. Took him to doctors and a headache specialist and didn't find anything medically wrong. Started prescribing some meds to try to get rid of the headaches but nothing has really worked, or so he claims. Mostly still on a messed up sleep schedule despite us telling him he needed to go to bed at a decent time. I just found out that he's been sneaking video games by playing on a Gameboy he had that I forgot about. Because he's been getting away with that, that's why I figured he didn't come care to earn back his screen time. Now I also suspect about his headaches. Whether he actually has them or if they are as bad as he says they are. He refuses to go to therapy. I mean right now he pretty much has gotten his way. He does zero school work, watches TV at his mom's, and apparently now has been playing Gameboy when he's over here and just sleeping weird hours. Because of the lying and hiding his habit or just trying to find another fix, I'm afraid that he'll just find something else to do once I take his Gameboy away. And forcing him to keep his door open, only allowing him to sleep in his room, etc. Is that really going to solve anything? Just looking for ideas on how to deal with this. His mom thinks I'm too strict and also suffers from chronic pain herself, so she tends to go easier on him. And as a result, he would just rather stay with her than come over to my place when I'm supposed to have him. I don't know if he's too prideful or ashamed to admit when he's messed up. And that's why he refuses to talk to someone else or even to try to earn his screen privileges back. He also feels he's treated unfairly because his older brother had way more freedom in that we didn't regulate his screen use as much. But he was getting good grades, working a job, and having extracurriculars. I've told my son that he would have the same freedom, but he would have to show me he could be responsible too. And clearly his addictions to screens was affecting the rest of his life. Is it time for even more hard love and more punishment slash monitoring? I can monitor him when I'm awake, but all bets are off when I'm in bed or when he's over at his mom's. We've tried to get him to do other things with us, but he refuses for the most part. Okay, what do y'all think about that? So let's start by analyzing the post a little bit, and I'm going to point out some language to y'all. I think this post is a prime example of how we try to work at Healthy Gamer. So the first thing is that Son has always loved gaming. Son has always loved gaming. Wasn't a problem until the pandemic. This is going to be important, right? Wasn't feeling well. We finally figured it out. So Dad thinks he has an answer. And then grade started to suffer. The pandemic hit. He pretty much gave up on school, only doing the bare minimum. Okay, there's divorced parents. That's an important piece. I grounded him. So Dad, once again, so Dad is like, I'm going to ground you because I figured it out, and gaming is the problem. So you're going to punish him, right? So we had been working with a therapist for my grandson. She suggested that he start earning back his privileges, but he had to admit what caused the loss of his privileges. He refused, so doesn't want to do therapy. But there may be a good reason for that. Why are people resistant? So shared custody with ex-wife is going to be important. She thought I was too strict. While he was with her, she was letting him watch TV, and he was the one manipulating her. Oh, this is interesting. So son is manipulative. Right? At the start of the new, now son has a headache. Okay. So they couldn't find anything medically wrong. And then Dad uses the word claims, or so he claims, or so he claims. Right? Mostly still on a messed up sleep schedule. I just found out that he's been sneaking video games. I'm also suspect about the headaches. I mean, right now, he's pretty much gotten his way. So here's the gotten his way. What does that imply to y'all? So, he's going to find another fix. Right? I'm afraid he'll just do something else. Forcing him to keep his door open. Right? His mom thinks I'm too strict. So she tends to go easier on him. And now he doesn't even want to come over to Dad's. What's Dad's understanding of why he doesn't want to come over? Oh, it's because my son can't manipulate me. I'm not going to get manipulated. Heaven forbid that mom actually like tries to understand her son. Like that couldn't be it. Like that couldn't be it. Maybe son actually really likes mom's place. Not because she lets him manipulate her, but because she has empathy and tries to support him. I don't know if he's too prideful or ashamed when he's to admit when he's messed up. I think that there's a third option here as well. Maybe maybe he's not maybe he hasn't messed up. Right? Because when did these problems start? They started during the pandemic. And that's why he refuses to talk to someone. I don't know if he's too prideful or ashamed. So this is the crux of our program. So if you don't know what's going on with your kids, why don't you ask them? Here's a crazy idea. Maybe you should ask them. And that's why he refuses to talk to someone else or even try to earn his screen privileges back. Maybe he refuses to earn his screen privileges back or try to play your game because it's a game that he's not going to win. Right? He also feels he's being treated unfairly. So here's what I'd say. This is a problem where the son is basically doing what the dad taught them to do. That's what's going on here. So dad diagnosis a problem and doesn't really care what anyone else thinks. Right? We're not at least we don't see it in the post. We're not hearing a whole lot of like dialogue or trying to understand. Dad diagnosis the problem. You're staying up too late. Therefore, this is going to change. Based on what I want to do, I'm just going to implement what I want to happen. So if the grades aren't good, I'm going to ground you. I'm going to take the PS4 and switch away. And so the dad is just going to find some way to like, do what he thinks. And it's a power struggle. So this isn't a 12 year old anymore. This is a 16 year old. 16 year olds have opinions. They have thoughts. They also have struggles. I'm not hearing. So what I'm hearing is that generally speaking, the pandemic has been terrible for most people's mental health. Addictions across the board have gone up. Depression has gone up. Anxiety has gone up. And so people, it's tough. And yet what's happening is dad is now distrusting, doesn't believe what his son is doing. And they're like in war. They're antagonistic. They're fighting against each other. And so they're in a competition where dad is like, I'm going to take your game away. And kid is like, I'm going to sneak a game. So the kid is now learning how to. So you guys get that like the basic problem is there's no dialogue. There's no attempt at understanding. There is just, I have my goal and I'm going to move towards it no matter what you do or how you feel. So no matter what happens, like if you don't do what I say you're going to do, I'm going to take away your video game. I'm going to increase the monitoring more. I'm going to restrict you more. And so the kid is playing the same game because that's what the kid has been taught. When you have a problem with someone, you don't actually ask them, Hey, what's going on here? You don't engage in dialogue. That's why the kid is resistant to therapy, right? Cause it's like, dialogue is not valuable in this relationship. And so the kid is going to do the same thing. So dad is like, I'm going to find a way to get to where I think this relationship needs to go. That's the overarching approach that dad has. It's not about understanding what's going on with the kid. It's all about this is what you need. The problem is the sleep schedule. The problem is the video game. So let me take that away. Let me take that away. Let me take that away. Let me fix it. Dad is a fixer. And as dad has fixed more and more things, what's happened started out with like doing the bare minimum. Now the kid has headaches and can't do any schoolwork. Good job, dad did a good job, right? Cause the more you're fixing the problem, the worst things are getting. Like, what do you think about that? It's interesting. Fix it more. Right? So dad is demonstrating a lot of good stuff. He's posting, he's asking for help. He's like, I don't know if, if this is actually like going to work. Should I do more tough love? That's good. Dad's making an effort. Right. And so when dad teaches you, Hey, when you have a problem, you just need to use whatever tools at your disposal to fix it. That's what the kid is doing as well. Maybe the kid is depressed. Maybe the kid is struggling in school. Maybe the problems aren't the video games themselves, but that it's really hard to stay motivated. Maybe kid has ADHD and he's like potentially failing out of school. And it's really hard for him. So he uses the video games to cope. And if you take away the PS4 and you take away the switch, like, let me explain something to you. If you've taken away your son's PS4 and switch and they're playing fricking Gameboy in the middle of the night, video game addiction is not the problem. Right. If you're resorting to like, it's hard to get addicted to a Gameboy, like it's really hard to get addicted to Gameboy. Am I wrong there chat? Like, do you guys get that? That's using gaming as coping. It's not like he's playing some gotcha game, right? Which is like designed to addict people. It's not that's not what he's playing. It's not like some endless MMO. It's freaking Gameboy. So if your kid is addicted to video game, Gameboy, like video game addiction is not, I would guess 99% of the time gaming addiction is not the problem. And so what the kid is going to do is he's going to find he's going to play the same game that dad is teaching him to play, which is when you believe something, you don't engage with someone. There's no compromise. There's my way or the highway. That's dad's approach. And so the kid is like, okay, if the game that we're playing is what you're subconsciously teaching your child, my way or the highway and the kid is going to, he's going to do the same thing. So I'm going to steal the Gameboy. I'm going to sneak it. I'm not going to engage with you. I'm not going to talk with you. I'm not going to engage with the therapist because what is the background of therapy? Just think about this. The therapist is like, he needs to understand why he's lost his privileges. What the fuck? The therapist isn't even bothering to ask why are you playing games in the first place? The why, why do you think the kid isn't going into therapy? It's because the kid doesn't have a voice. It's like therapy is being used as a tool of manipulation and control by the dad. He needs to articulate why he's been a bad boy and we took the games away. Then he'll get them back. Maybe the purpose of therapy is to ask the kid what's going on, man. Why are you playing the games? Are you struggling? What's it been like being at home? Like maybe start there. Maybe start by actually engaging with your child and asking them what's going on with you. It seems like you're struggling. Can I help? Maybe ask your kid, can I help instead of here, let me fix it for you and punish you with a side of punishment. Here's a main course. Here's a fix it burger with a side of punishment. Maybe ask, can I help? What's going on? Try to understand. Because now the kid has figured out the trump card. Psychosomatic illness. So I've seen this so much. Arguably I specialize in a lot of things, but I'd say at some point 30 or 40% of the referrals that I got were people with psychosomatic illness. So psychosomatic illness is one of these things where there's some kind of symptom, and we'll talk about this in a second, there's some kind of symptom or illness that can't be medically explained. So headaches are a good example of this. Brain fog is another good example of this. IBS or irritable bowel syndrome. Pots, postural orthostatic tachycardic syndrome is another good example of this. Various autoimmune conditions. Fibromyalgia, CPRS, complex regional pain syndrome, like eczema, headaches. These are all things that are psychosomatic in nature. And so what happens is when the mind suffers and has no coping mechanism or outlet for that suffering, it manifests in the body. There's even physiologic evidence for this. If you guys want to hear about that, we'll talk about that in a second. The mechanism through which these things happen. And so as the parent takes away the coping mechanism, you're taking away the copium and punishing them more, right? Then there's a conflict between mom and dad, and then the kid starts getting sick. I've seen this like a thousand times. And now the kid's got the Trump card. The kid doesn't want, it's not about video games, the kid doesn't want to go to school. The kid is afraid that he can't go to school. The kid is maybe in love with someone that doesn't like them back. Maybe he has ADHD and is struggling in school. Maybe he's afraid that they're going to be doomed. Maybe he's afraid that they won't get into good college and they'll be judged by everyone around them. Maybe his kid is intimidated because he knows that older brother is a gamer and does extracurriculars and has big shoes to fill. And younger brother knows there's no way I can ever live up to the shadow that my older brother has left. And so he's like, oh, I need an excuse for my poor performance. So now I'm medically unable. I can't do homework anymore. Headache. The kid is going to win this game. This is something that parents need to understand. The kids are going to win. They're going to win. Because the next thing that parents do is they send them off to like wilderness camps, right? It's a combination of fixing and punishment. That's what parents in this situation do. And so like it's all about power dynamics. It's not about collaboration or cooperation. It's about I'm going to force you to do what is best for you because I think it's best for you. And this is where a toxic relationship comes from. Now the kid doesn't even want to go to dad's place. Dad assumes it's because I don't let him watch TV. Well, like what the hell do you expect him to do all day? Maybe it's because mom expresses some degree of empathy. Maybe mom knows what it's like to have chronic pain. Maybe there's a reason why he doesn't want to go to dad's place. Like ever consider that. Maybe the reason he goes to mom's place, in dad's words, right? He manipulates her. She lets herself be manipulated. Maybe she's empathic. Maybe it's not manipulation. Maybe your kid isn't like a sociopath who's like claiming all this stuff. It's possible he's actually suffering. So that's the other thing I want you all to think about. Kid is having headaches and dad doesn't believe him. You guys get that from the post? Dad doesn't believe him. So how do you think that translates into dad's words? How do you think that translates into dad's tone? How do you think that translates into how the child feels about their dad? What's the relationship there when you go to specialist after specialist and you do everything that a good dad is supposed to do but in your heart of hearts you think your kid is faking it? Like what does that do to the kid? Whereas mom is like yeah I understand. I have chronic pain. So I know what it's like to go to doctors and get test after test after test and then tell you nothing is wrong because I feel it. It's wrong. Now I'm not trying to crucify dad here but this is a prime example of what we see in our parenting program. Is parents come in thinking like this. The good news is that parents are willing to change and it's just about taking a step back and working with your kid. It's about sitting down and asking your kid what can I do to help instead of fixing it. Maybe ask them what can I do to help? How can I understand what you're going through? What's tough about your life? Why are you playing the video game? Why is it so addictive to you? And you can even share your concerns. This is what we advocate for parents. We start by alliance building. So you have to learn how to talk to your kid and understand what's going on in their life. Because you can't conquer video game addiction on your own if your kid is fighting against you. It's never going to work. All that's going to happen, you may squash the video game addiction and it's going to pop up. It's going to be like a game of whack-a-mole where they're going to have other problems. So we see this where kids will start doing things like lighting fires and they'll do things like start stealing and other kinds of acting out behaviors. They'll get into drugs. There are things like that that happen. If you just squash the video game without addressing the underlying causes of the video game, you're in big trouble because they'll just manifest or they'll manifest in a psychosomatic way. All of that negative energy will manifest in some other way. So it starts by understanding your kid and building an alliance with them. And then by all means, set healthy limits. So the conversation with your kid is, hey, I understand that the pandemic has been rough for you. I understand that it's hard. Do you want to go to college? You have to sit down with your kid and ask, do you want to go to college? How do you think you're doing? The kid is like, I'm terrified because I know I'm not going to get into college. And then the right move for dad is you have to ask the kid, okay, I would like to help you if you want to go to college to help you get into college. Do you want my help? Are you afraid that even with my help, you won't be able to make it? I can understand that because I don't know if you're going to make it, but I'm willing to try if you want my help because the kid is taking the power. You guys got that? Dad is like trying to exert power in the relationship and kid is stealing it right back. Kid is like, kid is going to win. Your kid is going to win any conflict between parent and child. Kid is going to win. That's what I've learned having two daughters, ages six and four. Right? Even if the parent wins, the parent loses. So you have to support your kid, collaborate with your kid, build an alliance with your kid. And then because the thing is like, I don't know if you guys have had interactions with your parents, but like y'all have goals, right? So why do you come here? Why do you come to me? It's because I support you and your goals. I don't tell you you're dumb for feeling a certain way or sometimes I do. Right? So I call this one guy real life smurf. Like that wasn't the nicest thing to say, but like you say it with compassion, you say it with the goal of help and the person's asking for help. So as a parent, you have to like support people in what they want to do. And like, this is the cool thing about our program is like when parents do this, it's amazing. It's like transformative. So we've had like, like we had one kid who, you know, so the kid had confidence problems. So we played a bunch of video games. So we like sat and dad learned how to talk to his kid. Dad was like, Hey, what do you think about like learning Jiu-Jitsu? Kid is like, yeah, that's dope. You know, when my, when my friends are playing video games, you know, when my, when my friends are playing video games, I was studying the blade. Right. And so then, then like, here's a pro level question, if you guys want pro level question that you that I teach, we teach our parents to ask. So you say you want to learn Jiu-Jitsu. So next week, when we sign you up for Jiu-Jitsu class, and it's time to go, and you tell me that you don't want to go and you change your mind, do you want me to listen to you? So when you tell me you don't want to go next week, because I have a feeling that could happen. I just want to know what do you want me to do? Do you want me to hold you accountable to what you want now? And do you want me to try to force you to go? Or do you want me to just let it slide? If you change your mind? You ask that question one week ahead of time. That question is awesome. It's like the most OP question, because you're asking the child, do I get to control you next week or not? And the child is like, Yeah, I want you to force me to go. Right? And then like when it comes, like then the parent has it, and he's like, Look, I wouldn't normally force you, but you asked me to do this. So like, I'm choosing to listen to you from a week ago, as opposed to like the you from now. And I'm going to force you to go. As best as I can, I'm going to force you, I can't really like I'm not gonna like pick you up and manhandling and sticking the car, but I'm going to force you to go. And then tomorrow morning, I'm going to ask you whether this was the right move or not. So I'm going to ask you tomorrow morning when next week rolls around, do you want me to force you or do you not want me to force you? And then the kid is like, Okay, fine. And the next morning rolls around. And then parent asked the kid, Hey, did I do the right thing in forcing you? Or do you want me to like not do that anymore? And then kid is like, I'd say honestly, like 90% of the time, they're like, force me you did the right thing. Thank you. Thank you for making me go to jujitsu. And then parent and child high five, they're on the same team. They did it. parent is like, awesome. Right? Let's celebrate. And then suddenly, this antagonistic interaction becomes like a celebration. And then like, this is happening in all of their dimensions for a lot of the kids, half the kids anyway. Right? Like, I'm telling you guys, this is not fictional. This actually happens. This is what we try to do. Right? It's about understanding your kid and supporting your kid. Your kid doesn't need you to fix their problems for them. That's not raising an adult. It's infantilizing a teenager. They don't need you to control them. They need you to support them. Because video game addiction. So people will ask me, so like, I'm an expert, whatever the hell that means in video game addiction. So parents will ask me, what do you do with your kids? Do you let them play video games? And I say, Yes, I do. Do you let them watch TV? Yes, I do. They're like, what? Then I say, it's my philosophy that it's better to teach a child restraint rather than restriction. So I've seen this a lot, like in the Indian community, where like, parents will be super strict. No boyfriends, no girlfriends, no drinking, no smoking, no video games. It's math club, mathletes, you know, math competition. Those are all three separate things. I'm not talking about one thing. They enroll their kid in all three piano or violin, either acceptable. No drama, no theater, none of that stuff. You can do space camp. Space camp is acceptable. And no parties, no short, no no dresses above the knee, no tattoos, no coloring of the hair. You're going to be a good you're going to be a good Indian kid. You know, and then they go to college. 30% of them, maybe 50% of them wind up great. They're like totally fine with that. They get 4.0s. They do fantastic. The other 50% fall apart. Drinking drugs, tattoos, rebellion, rebellion. Oh my goodness, he's been corrupted by American culture. India is so much better. He's corrupted. Hurry up. Corrupted. It's bad influence. He has that friend. His friend is Mexican. He's hanging out with these boys. That is the problem. It is not because I taught him. Let's do a little bit of racism too because we are Indian. It's what we do. It is not my fault. This this boy is he's hanging out with the wrong crowd. He's doing the drinking and the drugs. I do not understand why he's not going to the math clubs. It's corrupted. Hurry up. What are we going to do? This should not happen. It is problem with American values. American culture is bad. Now even my younger son, I'm not going to even let him leave the house. He's going to do homeschool and no friends that are not Indian, no Mexicans, no even Americans. Chinese is okay. That's okay. It's okay because they must do studies. That's the attitude. Teach restraint over restriction. Teach your kids how to regulate themselves. Right. Give them the option and teach them how to like restrain themselves. Yes. Problem. So anyway, going back to this case. So I think this is a case that we see time and time and time again. And what I think it comes down to is like parent is trying to control child and child is going to win. They're going to manifest things to get out of school until they've succeeded. And I don't know if you guys remember like this is the people in our community are this way too. Y'all have been the kid, right? Who has done the physical illness stuff. We see posts about that too where people like manifest weird like illnesses. And it's all psychosomatic because the mind and the body are connected. And we know this. We know that, for example, like stress worsens heart disease. Right. If you guys want to hear about that, we can talk about that in a second. So overall, when it comes to like interacting with your parents and if you're a parent who's watching this, it's all about understanding your kid. It's not I get that you love your kid, but it's just like your kid isn't 14. They're not 12. They're 16. They have thoughts. They have feelings. I don't know what's going on with my kid. So then ask instead of assuming, oh, the problem is that they're like sleeping too late. Well, like maybe the reason they're sleeping too late is something else. Right. Things are not so simple. Fixing their sleep schedule is going to be a major part of it. I don't doubt that. Like sleep schedule is huge, but it's not going to like fix all the psychological problems that cause them to like go into gaming. It's just not going to be sufficient. There's a lot more that needs to happen to it. So our approach, at least working with parents, is to start by building an alliance and then helping them set healthy boundaries. And sort of the way that I explained to you all with like the jujitsu example, right. It's about letting the kid know. And there's another thing that we try to teach that, oh, this is tough. Another thing that we try to teach parents is to let their kids fail. Right. So I'll give you guys this. It's very important for parents to learn. You got to learn how to teach your, you have to learn how to let your child fail. So I'll give you guys an example. So sometimes with parents who try to set limits around video games. Okay. So here's one of my favorite ones. So it's like, if you are, we're going to do accent again. Okay. So if you are going to want to play the video game, you must get 3.5 GPA. You have to study every day. And if you don't get 3.5 GPA, I'm going to take the game away. And the kid's like, okay, dad, cool. Whatever. And so then what happens, like what happens the next day, right? So let's say you have this conversation on a Sunday, Monday kid comes home, doesn't study. What does the parent do? Are you studying? Why aren't you studying? You should study. If you don't get 3.5, I'm taking the game away. I told you, I've told you before. You should study. And then the kid's like, yeah, dad, I'll do it. I'll do it. Whatever. And then like two hours go by dad's back. What are you doing? You're still not studying. I've told you 3.5. I've told you before. And so parents start nagging, right? So like suddenly you set this limit on the child where they're responsible for getting a 3.5 GPA. But who's actually taking the responsibility? You're laying the theoretical responsibility on the kid. But you are taking the responsibility as a parent. You're nagging them. Hey, I want you to succeed. I want, don't, don't fail. Don't fail. Don't fail. I can't let you fail. Like even though I said that you can handle it and you said you can handle it. Now I'm not going to let you handle it. I'm going to intercede on your behalf. And I've heard this from kids where like, you know, parents will set limits and like the parent will be like, did you want me, do you want me to remind you to do your homework? And the kid's like, no, I can handle my homework myself. I don't need you to stop nagging me, mom. Stop nagging me. It's like, stop doing it. I can, I'm, I'm, I'm 16 years old. I'm basically an adult. I can take care of myself. And then the parent takes a step back and then kid gets a D. What does kid do? Get pissed at the parent. Why didn't you remind me, mom? Oh my God, I forgot. And it's your fault that I forgot. It's your fault. You didn't remind me. You were supposed to remind me. No, I wasn't. Right? So this is the problem. If you're going to give your kids the responsibility, give them the responsibility. You gotta let them fail or don't give them the responsibility. You can't have it halfway. So letting the parents, let their kids fail, teaching the parents how to let their kids fail is one of the most important things that we offer. And it's hard. Believe me, it's hard because if he gets the C, oh my goodness, he's not going to get to Harvard or Yale. Oh my goodness. His future is destroyed. We will not be able to find a good girl. I want to have Ivy league daughter-in-law educated, but not too educated. Son must be more educated. Right? Right. So you can't let your kid fail because then that has consequences. So then you protect your kid from the consequences. You don't let them have, you don't let them damage their own life. And in doing so, you infantilize them and then you accept responsibility for their situation, even though you don't have the power to control their situation. Suddenly their grades are your fault, but you can't do the studying. Boy, I have no doubt in my mind that there's a handful of Indian parents out there that would take the test for their kids if they could. Right? And then you have a man child, which is what a lot of Indian men grow up to be because their parents will infantilize them. Oh, no, no, beta. You don't need to learn how to wipe your own ass. Let mommy do it for you. Yes. Mommy needs to get it properly. So you don't have dingleberry. My boy. Right. All right. So if parents are watching that, they can Google what? Anyway, let mommy do it for you. All right. All right. So you got to let your, you got to let your kids fail. Right? So like in do it, getting to that process. And this is the cool thing is you don't oftentimes once they know that you're not there or what's going to happen is they'll ask you for their help. And that's, it's just like what I was saying earlier about like, let them ask you for your help. So it's like the jujitsu thing where you ask them, Hey, do you want me to do this for you? You have to have them ask you for it. Right? They have to understand you can't force your help on them because they're going to reject it. Anyway, like the dad is doing everything right. In a sense, right? He's like trying to get his kid into therapy. He's like taking away the game. He's like, they're setting a regular sleep schedule. He's doing everything right. But the kid is fighting every sense of the set of every step of the way. So this is what we've learned at HG is like, if your kid is fighting you every step of the way, it's not going to work. It just doesn't work. And the first step is that you and your kid, like, I don't know if you guys get this, but if someone in your life has an addiction, they have to be trying to kick it in order to kick it. You guys get that? Like you can't make an alcoholic sober from the outside. Like they have to want to be sober. And even then it's an uphill battle with all of the support and all of the resources because you're dealing with an addiction. And parents are out there trying to fix these problems for their kids instead of working with their kids because it's just not going to work. Right. And so we try to do this kind of stuff. I don't know if this stuff was relatable to y'all or not. But I mean, this is the big thing. And speaking of which, you know, we were talking about evolution earlier. I think parents have a higher, how can I say this? Our society has evolved where old styles of parenting are insufficient. So my parents never talk to me like the way that we teach, you know, kids, the way that we teach parents to talk to kids. This level of communication has not been necessary in the past for whatever reason. I'm not quite sure. Maybe it was, I don't know. But it's been my experience that the challenges that kids face now, like for example, the pandemic with depression getting worse, you know, suicide remaining basically stable, anxiety getting worse, video game addiction rates are climbing through the roof. I think they're close to like 11% of the population now, which is not sorry, not 11% of the population, 11% of people under the age of 18. So that's twice as bad as alcoholism. It's like staggering. So stuff is getting worse. And I think parents, unfortunately, like just being a good parent is no longer sufficient. The world that kids are growing up in case in point with our case with the person who doesn't know how to go outside. There are so many basic things about the world that has changed. And we have to change with it. Parents have to change with it. We as kids have to change with it. Right. So it's challenging. I don't blame them. That's what we try to help them because it's like, it's not their fault. Like parenting maybe used to be easier. I don't even know if it's fair to say that. But the problems that parents used to face were different. Now it's like, you know, you've got to, it is, I do think things are more challenging because back in my day, video games were not designed by like psychologists and behavioral economists. Right. They were designed by like, I guess people in Japan who thought that plumber Italian plumbers make good heroes. And then instead of like dragons as enemies, we're going to have a turtle. And that's what that's who used to design games. And now we have these like billion dollar corporations that are like, you know, hiring psychologists and behavioral economists and things like that, that are like designing games so that your kid, like if you look at these iPad things, right, like kids used to spend like hundreds of dollars on the iPad without their parents even knowing. That's how things are designed. So I do think it's an uphill battle and I don't blame parents. Like, I mean, I was kind of harsh on this dad, which is a little bit unfair. Sort of not the dude's fault, but I think he's kind of screwing up, you know, so have some compassion, but also hold people accountable.