 I'm smiling because I think you're an absolute failure and I think that that's perfectly. Okay, I Think that I was a failure too and failure is not the end of the road. It's the beginning Right, so now you can really start to live your life because you can you've you have you have burned down Potential you've burned down the idea of I will always been able to do things faster than everyone else All of that expectation and potential you're actually free of it. It's a burden and Every every ounce of projected failure that ounce of projected failure comes from an ounce of expectation Do you see that like you can't fail if you don't expect? You What am I calling you friend Zack Zack and so apologies first of all Zack for our setback on Monday I had locate I had gone to a slightly different location that had poor internet So now I've decided to move back to my underground bunker But Yes, I'm really I'm sorry about that. I hope that was kind of okay for you. But yeah, that was fine I actually kind of worked out well, okay some other stuff that happened at that time. So cool. Well neat So tell me a little bit Zack, you know, help me understand a little bit about why you're coming on today and how we can be helpful Yeah, so Right now And actually for the last like three and a half months or so I've been unemployed and living in my parents basements and Making almost no progress and getting out of that because I spent pretty much every waking hour of the day playing video games I was watching anime and stuff Video games and anime. Yes Mostly video games. Okay, um Browsing reddit Usual the Holy Trinity. Yeah Trinity of not getting anywhere. Yeah Yeah, so like obviously I'm in this bad situation if things I Mean not even a year ago like six months ago was in grad school working towards getting my PhD. Oh, wow yeah, and then I Had a whole bunch of stressful stuff that happened over a couple months in there that slowly led to me dropping out Yeah, now I have no idea where to go with my life and I'm kind of stuck here Can you tell us a little bit about the? stressful stuff It's a bit of a story because it was a series of things So For the first year or so of my PhD. I had made very little progress in my research Were you getting your PhD in? The neuroscience branch of Biomedical engineering. Okay, I was at the University of Utah. Okay So I was I went there and started working for this professor He was new and had some projects and one of them interested me So I was working with him and after about a year I didn't really make any progress which was kind of to be expected because it was chemistry related and Chemistry sometimes you just Nothing works the way you expect it to and you don't know why because you can't see the things that you're interacting with But I didn't really get anywhere in a year. And so He was kind of upset. I Was upset that nothing was happening. We weren't getting anywhere So I had some stress that was building up because of that because things weren't going along as was expected and there's not necessarily conflict between us, but It was sort of like passive aggressiveness Which then I was just started getting overwhelmed by all the stuff that was having to do and then This was roughly like August or September. What were you having to do? Just lots of work, I guess Was that different from before Kind of Kind of How do I put this having to deal with classes and research at the same time rather than just classes was More than I was used to and then also I would do what I thought was an adequate amount of work for the day like maybe six to eight hours In the lab and he was like, you know such-to-such isn't done. You need to be here more Which I didn't like the idea of spending what would have had to be 10 12 plus hours a day and weekends in order to get all of that Okay, so when you say overwhelmed Well, help me understand what we're talking about a little bit more precisely So one is that he's upset with you one is you're not accomplishing what his expectations are Male male PI Yes, okay PI is principal investigator, by the way So you're so you were in someone's lab and he was saying you need to be here for like did he see he did he use those numbers or No, but it was so the experiment I was working on He wanted me to like each section each like test I would do He wanted me to do each test and like roughly a day the test though takes about five to six hours The test though takes about 12 hours to do there's a breaking point in the middle where i'm capable of like pausing it Okay, and not losing any progress at about six to eight hours. So I was going up to that point And then doing the other half the next day Okay, he wants to do it like all at once go go go Okay one test a day and so there was a differential expectation set in terms of what you wanted to do and what he wanted you to do Yeah, okay So just about like any other phd program. Yes Again like kind of to be expected. Yeah in a sense And so so i'm confused about so what was overwhelming is you had classes on top of that and you weren't doing experiments During the first half of your first year or what? Um Yeah, so like I was I mean obviously like in undergrad It was just classes Um, maybe I had like a job on the side that I do a couple hours every now and then but like I wasn't really doing 12 hours a day and I come in and I knew like I was gonna have to put in a lot of work But I didn't really realize exactly what that meant Especially when I was applying to schools and people from the school were like yeah, like all the professors here are really chill They don't make you work weekends like other professors at other schools do it's like oh wow that sounds like so fit for me because I don't really like spending so many hours of my life on one thing. Sure So I went into this, you know expecting to do like some hard work, but I've through everything else i've done and through all of undergrad and everything I've always been able to get things done faster than everyone else. So it's like i'll be able to do the same thing here um And then yeah, then when I sort of sat down and realized i'm gonna have to do all my classes I have to teach a lab course because I have to do ta stuff uh, and then I have to Do all this research in a day I have to be talking to other professors trying to get my committee assembled and trying to communicate with people from other areas um and Also have to deal with all the stuff in my apartment and paying the rent and everything like that Sure, which it was just a lot of stuff and i'm so used to spending More of my time not doing those things. Sure Um, I want to just highlight something that you said I don't know exactly what the significance of this is i've always been able to get things done faster than everyone else Okay, yeah I want to just note that and and okay Um, so so then then what happened? So it sounds like you didn't want to spend 10 to 12 hours a day in the lab You had a lot of different things to juggle in terms of life responsibilities classes committee stuff teaching It's a lot. Yeah. Yeah, it was a lot. So I was To an extent like I mean I would I sort of did my six hour thing for research and all my other stuff I was like, yeah, you want me to do this stuff, but it's just not possible And so I just didn't do those things And I did that and then after a year we I didn't make any progress. So now there's what does not make any progress means um So I guess i'll have to get a little bit into the specifics for that I was trying part of my research was to Make these special particles, I guess you could say And it was supposed to be just like a replication of what someone else had done and another paper And I actually talked to her in person as well She explained to me the process We were just redoing it with a different set of chemicals and in theory it should be possible and pretty easy And we planned on it only taking like a month to figure it out It's 12 months in no matter how I combine these things and we're buying other stuff online and trying other things Nothing is working. It's not because you duplicate exactly what she did with her chemicals Yes, okay And even tried figuring out okay, you know controlling for all of the different variables and changing everything Um, which there was a bit of conflict and he wanted things to happen fast So he was like just change these five variables all at once if it doesn't work then try These other five variables and i'm like, we don't know if these variables interact with each other We need to do them one at a time And so there was a little bit of conflict there trying to get that settled and again No matter what things I changed eventually I just had to give in and change five variables at a time and sure enough it doesn't work Sure. Now we don't know why which one was the fault of that And yeah, uh a year in I haven't Made these Don't know why they don't work Or what variables are a factor? Sometimes i'll run the same experiment twice and get different results And it's just i'm like i'm completely in the dark No idea what's going on. Yeah So yeah, so that that happens for like a year or so um We're not really getting anywhere and still trying things out and then around this time point There was someone reminded me About I think it's an nih grant It's something that like all grad students apply for and like they're freshmen and sophomore years Some like big national grants or whatever. Okay I was like, oh I had forgotten about that And that's coming up soon and I need to have part of my research done so that I can have something to write about in there And I also needs to go get people from back in undergrad to write me letters of recommendation And I don't even know who to talk to at this point for that I also have to figure out what i'm going to write about what the recommendations are What the requirements are So now I have another thing on my plate that I have to worry about and That that built up some stress and there was other stuff going on part of it was You know, I would just ignore that for a little while and then work on the other things I had to do Um, and so of course it just keeps building keeps building because i'm procrastinating things Until sort of the first major break point Was there was a meeting amongst grad students for this grant It was students who had already gotten the grant successfully were teaching those of us who hadn't how to write our papers so I went to that meeting and sat down and They started talking about how to write about Your achievements and other things that you've done because that's one of the important aspects of the And the achievements that they listed out and that everyone else in the room talked about Were just so much greater than anything that I had done at that point That I immediately got imposter syndrome What do you mean by imposter syndrome Uh, like I felt like I had gotten there by accident that I totally didn't belong I had not achieved anything of great worth compared to what these people had done And that they were all aware of what they were doing and knew how to do go about their research And I was flying in dark and that I hadn't made any progress because I didn't know what I was doing and that I was completely lost Okay, and that it was a fluke that I had ended up in this program Because I was big and stupid and didn't know what I was doing Um Didn't know what to write about And then I was like, okay, I'm gonna go with this Um Didn't know what to write about and all that other stuff And yeah, I was I was really overwhelmed because so many people I swear like one of them like went to africa and cured Malaria in a tribe or something like this is wild stuff that they were doing It was like what have I done with my time? I've Gone home and spent my free time playing video games Like i've always done. I haven't achieved anything like these people Yeah, um So, yeah that that felt like shit at that moment and Just all the stress of everything building up to that point and then this corner core I guess you could say moments of realization even though it's not really reality in a sense I know that it was a positive syndrome, but what do you mean moments of realization? Can you tell us about some of those? Uh Again like Looking at it from this perspective i'm in now I know that it was just my brain making things up and saying like, you know, like a moment of realizing that I don't belong here. I know now is imposter syndrome but at the time when i'm really stressed out like that i'm thinking I'm realizing that I don't belong here. I'm realizing that Getting here. I wasn't this crazy smart person getting into this program I actually don't belong here, but you've always been able to do things faster than everyone else Yeah, I know right like it's it's this weird conflict that Goes on in my head but So Yeah at that moment I sort of I guess you could say snapped And I packed up my stuff. I walked out of the meeting early I got on the train I curled up in the ball in the seat and then tried to forget everything And pretend that it didn't happen Which didn't work Not in the slightest And so then I kept feeling stressed out and like at some point in there I went to see a university therapist to try and help me through these things good for you um And the next major breaking point that I guess was sort of the peak and caused the down spiral was When my pi said that I had to He came up to me. We had a lab meeting the next day. He said oh by the way Um the meeting that we had tomorrow whoever was presenting isn't going to present It said you're going to present your outline on this spring And I hadn't written anything This was like four o'clock in the afternoon I had to go to another lab across campus to do more research that day and had a homework assignment do that night So I sit up until like 3 a.m. Working on this presentation once I finally got home And then I go in of course it's crap because i'm super tired and I haven't gotten any sleep and he just Beats the crack out of me in this presentation about how bad everything is What does he say and? Uh, it was just I can't even remember now this was like six months ago, but Uh, it was it was like the um The topics that I was talking about weren't good Um, I wasn't communicating the right points I wasn't explaining it and I was explaining it in too much detail. It wasn't simple enough for like layman's terms to understand um I was focusing on the wrong points I didn't again like for the um achievements that i've done that's sort of the big portion of this I didn't have anything and I didn't know what to talk about About and Also in my presentation he was even nitpicking things like my graphs were done in excel and it's not matlab When they should be done to matlab like that's unacceptable um, and so I had sort of in that looks to the other lab members for like please for the love of god help me and None of them did anything. They just agreed with him. They're like, yeah, you should work on those things. I'm like So you're looking for support from someone else and they left you out in the cold, yeah And so Again, it like the chefs had been constantly building up for like last couple of months to this point And there was already a breaking point and so it just kept building from there and then this happened And so I went home that day and I got off the train And I was walking down the sidewalk to my house and uh I I don't know why this is so hard to say Um I had looked I had stopped on the sidewalk and turned towards the road and considered walking into traffic Sure And yeah, that was that was a moment I didn't what what are you feeling as you try to say that? I don't know. It's funny because like Thinking about okay, how am I going to tell the story? I've been through this exact moment several times in my head I don't really feel anything. Yep, then that saying it is Different yep Very very important observation So what are you feeling as you say it? Are you feeling something good? Are you feeling something bad? Bad Um, are you getting a piece of what it was like to stand on that sidewalk? A little bit But it's what i'm feeling is like The reality of how severe it was good Tell us about that So Restating, you know everything that i've experienced again saying it feels like Like It wasn't that big of a deal like yes, there was a lot of stress and things but it's all like I'm you know, i'm listening out like things that I guess you could say normal grad students go through lots of work or things I had to do and i'm thinking normal grad students. This wasn't anything extreme But then thinking about that moment there It's like No, it was it was a lot worse. Zach. Can you tell us about your reality in that moment? That everything was fucked beautifully put what does that mean? Uh, I I was in a dark place. Um, I wasn't what made it dark enjoying what I was doing. Um Um My outlook on life and the world was very negative in what way was it negative I didn't really see much of the positives of life and I viewed everything I guess from like a very pessimistic viewpoint so To add in a little bit to that a lot of the reddit discussion that I was viewing around this time was about corruption and stuff in the world And so I was latching onto that things like global warming and whatnot Which all helped contribute to it and then it was like i'm a victim of this um the I had lots of views that Academia and I actually still kind of agree with these academia is very corrupt um And isn't what it's supposed to be it's supposed to be about doing research to learn about things that we don't understand And instead it's about writing papers to get money And a lot of papers are just made up crap just so that they can get funded And it was like I am in I went into this To do something nice and great and it said i'm here in this corrupt situation Being manipulated by the people above me who are just in it to get money And everything is fucked How does it feel to be manipulated How does it feel terrible? Part of the meat that goes into the meat grinder grinder that is a phd program Feels awful like oh my god, how do people do that? How do people um I don't know. It's it's like super depressing. It's um, what's depressing about it? Tell me the thoughts zach. What were the thoughts that were going through your head? Because it's not fair there we go Right because in your head you don't think this is super depressing yeah, what do you think in your head? Stressed out is not what you think in your head overwhelmed is not what you think in your head Yeah, I'm thinking that I put in a lot of effort to get here. I followed all the rules. I followed the guidelines. There we go And what you followed the rules and what and what happened? I got to this point where The higher-ups are using me and they're taking my labor they're paying me nothing They're expecting me to do things that I can't do Good what else I followed the rules and what? I got let down I'd say got let down as an understatement you got fucked buddy Yeah, you're taking my time Did you feel alone? Oh, yeah I can only imagine right so sitting there is your professor tears you a new asshole in your lab meeting and then all of all of the other grad students are kind of like Right no one's defending you no one's protecting you And especially when the other lab members are like making progress on their stuff And i'm not And now it's very isolating to feel like you're the only one going through it Because you are right everyone else is succeeding and what are you doing? Yeah, absolutely nothing You're failing It's like being in a classroom of kids who can read and you can't Yeah Yeah When we talk about feeling overwhelmed, what were you what were the thoughts there? Um Stuff like again, this is this is too much I can't do this too many expectations of me How can I fake it and make it seem like i'm doing the work but i'm not Um, how do other people get through it? Okay? Can I uh, I I think those are the I think those make sense. I'm gonna so I can't do this and how can I fake it? I think there's another kind of level to that which is that How can I push off failure? I can't do this, but I don't want to fail quite yet. Is there anything I can do? Like you know that the failure is coming you feel that the failure is coming and is there anything you can scrape together? To prevent going into bankruptcy like today Yeah, can I push out this failure and push out this failure and push out this failure and each time you push out the failure You try to buy yourself some time to where maybe people won't notice Maybe you can pull it together Maybe you can fix it and the more time that goes on The failure becomes more and more and more certain and you push it out and you push it out and you push it out And you're faking it and you're faking it and everyone's making progress and it's becoming more and more inevitable Mm-hmm Is that how you felt? Yeah Yeah, definitely. How does that feel? Yeah, yeah, definitely. How does that feel? Again like I just didn't belong Um That I should never have gone into grad school in the first place and that it was a huge fuck-up day so It was a huge fuck-up or you're a huge fuck-up I Guess both Like there's there's a perspective of i'm a huge fuck-up Because I can't do this But also it was a huge fuck-up decision to put myself in a situation when I should have known that I couldn't have done this I should have known Like why did I think that I was so capable I've always been able to get things done faster than everyone else Yeah And Yeah, yeah That's a lot zack Yeah, so tell us tell us what so you're Walking home you're considering stepping into traffic. Why didn't you? Uh, I thought that it would hurt I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I And then what and uh, I think I took a nap or something. I just like fell asleep Then I woke up at like eight o'clock or something and then made dinner And played some video games. What did you play? I don't remember. Okay. What are you playing nowadays? RuneScape Lots and lots and lots of RuneScape. Okay And what do your parents think right now? Uh I mean, I don't know exactly what their thoughts are uh but my mom has like I say I think I feel like she chides me and like bothers me a lot Realistically, it's like maybe once every two weeks. She'll say hey, have you been looking for jobs? And that's about it But it feels annoying to me like yes Duh, why is it? Why is it annoying? I it's because it's like I'm in this situation and You know, I've been in this situation because I was calling you while I was going through it all Um You know that I feel terrible And then i'm trying to put with the left right. I can't I can't into it and you're still asking me about it Especially right now during the covid thing. It's like What jobs you want me to get what is there you got some mat like you you got one i'll go find one mom like Sure, why don't you why don't you hand it out to me? It's so easy to go get one Why don't you tell me where they are? I've applied for so many and they've all rejected me and like it's not that easy And I don't know If it's just my head but I feel like they're disappointed um I know my my brother, um He has autism and so we as a family have to take care of him but Sometimes because of his patterns and things he'll end up staying up and super late and waking up at like 12 o'clock in the afternoon or something Which I mean I do too because I play video games really late at night But my parents will yell at him and be like, why are you staying up and so late? Why are you getting up so late? That's not good for you and They never say it to me, but I can feel it directed at me as well What's it like for them to never say it to you It's good question Um It's like passive aggressiveness in a sense, I guess it's not the right Wording but sure that's maybe describing what it is. It's not how you feel. Yeah Oh it just Just feel Can I offer something? Yeah Yeah, is there a part of you that's like can you just call me a fuck up and be done with it Yeah Can you just call me out on my bullshit instead of asking In a polite motherly loving concern how the job search is going Can you just call me once in your life and say why the fuck haven't you found a job yet? What the fuck is wrong with you? How would it feel if your mom said that I mean You still feel pretty shit. Yep, it would still feel pretty shit but anything It would Mostly be I would know what they're thinking very really Why don't you know what they're thinking? Because they don't talk about it a whole lot Sure, um, it's why don't they talk about it a whole lot Fuck if I know probably because it's hard but Who is it hard for? I mean it's hard for them to talk about it because I mean I don't talk about these things with them because it's hard for Me to talk about it. So it's gotta be hard for them too, right? Sure Do you think maybe the reason they don't talk about it is because you don't talk about it? Me Yeah So I want you to put yourself in their shoes for a moment, Zach Your son has been in the competitive phd program essentially washes out You see him sleeping till noon every day. You can tell he's struggling And so you put on your kid gloves and you handle him like the fragile piece of porcelain he is Right They can see you're hurting they probably don't want to bother you they don't want to ask you hard questions Because they're afraid of how they're going to make you feel because they they love you Yes, no, yeah So, what do you think they're trying to do? I mean how does someone who loves you Respond to a situation where like yours I have no idea How are they responding I mean again just Trying not to mess with it too much they're still trying to make sure that i'm Hopefully trying but They're also not trying to interfere too much sure They're trying to give you your space How hard do you think they think a conversation about this will be for you Very I mean we had a conversation once Can you tell me about it a while back Uh I don't remember when this was exactly a couple months ago, but we went to there's a bar nearby and we went there And I knew going there i'm like they're gonna try to talk about it. That's why they're pulling me out And yeah, they I mean I don't remember a whole lot because I'm a super lightweight and so one single beer puts me out pretty quickly Um But I do remember we talked about that and how I was applying for things what I was applying for um What I wanted to do about grad school because I haven't technically dropped out i'm in leave of absence So do I want to go back and i'm like not really? um And then bringing up that they eventually want to be empty nesters and so So They want to try and help me through this because they can't keep me here forever which i'm again like no fucking shit Um How do you feel about yourself sack Yeah, I felt like a huge fuck-up like um, how do you feel about yourself today? Like i've had so much potential and I have dropped down to this huge low that that potential Yeah Potential is a bad drug Fucking hate it. What do you hate about it? It's like it's These high expectations that as long as you meet them everyone praises you but if you don't meet them It's just like faces of scorn and like Everyone nobody talks about it. Like I had like all my friends were like, oh yeah, i'm gonna tell everyone like how dare you talk back To this guy. He's a phd student all this crap and i'm nobody even talks like so I was like, oh, yeah, you know I think i'm gonna drop out. That was kind of it. None of my friends ever talked about it again It's like nobody wants to touch on the subjects that I failed Nobody wants to like when you have huge potential everyone wants to touch on the subjects that I failed Everyone talks about all these like crazy things you're gonna do And then when you fail to meet that it's just dropped And everything you do Feels like a failure I stopped showing my game status on discord because I felt ashamed Yeah Everything you do feels like a failure failure. How do you feel zach? Like shit what does that mean? Like again like like i'm a failure like I have are you a failure? Yeah, if you like it What are you i'm sitting in my parents basement playing video games. So yeah So Here's the crazy thing I agree with you I think you are a failure Here's the difference between me and you though. Why am I why are you smiling right now? No idea, why am I smiling I also don't know. Okay. So I think why are you smiling? I think you're smiling out of defensiveness because sometimes when we deal with negative negative terrible things All we can do is smile. Otherwise Everything comes crashing apart falling down. I'm smiling because I think you're an absolute failure and I think that that's perfectly okay I think that I was a failure too and failure is not the end of the road. It's the beginning Right, so now you can really start to live your life because you can you've you have You have burned down Potential you've burned down the idea of I will always been able to do things faster than everyone else All of that expectation and potential you're actually free of it It's a burden And every every ounce of projected failure That ounce of projected failure comes from an ounce of expectation Do you see that like you can't fail if you don't expect? I can kind of see that Right, so like like washing out of a phd program is only an issue if you Were expected to be there and be successful If you felt like you were like everyone else and if you felt like you could cut it there because you're smarter than everyone and you can't Start with the idea that you fucking suck at life And then like that's where like honestly dude, that's where my life began It's like where you are now like the the problem is that we build this house of cards that is potential And it gets bigger and bigger and bigger. But boy is it fragile Right, that's the imposter syndrome. It looks like a house you look at it from outside. It's tall Has lots of walls and lots of rooms But a puff of wind and the thing comes fucking crumbling down And now like that's not I wish for you I don't wish for you bizarrely that you had succeeded Because if you had succeeded all you would have done is add another layer to the house of cards You see that yeah, every success that you've had has just increased like you're just stacking the the house of cards higher and higher and higher And it's a bullshit foundation Because it's going to come tumbling down And I think you can actually begin now I think failure is when you begin because now you have no expectations you sort of have expectations still but we'll try to disabuse you of those very soon I'm I'm smiling because I think that this is like good for you I think like this is gonna change your life and 10 years from now You're gonna look back on it and you're gonna like realize like because that's I mean, that's what I hope for you Maybe 10 years from now, you'll you'll be nowhere. You'll be sitting at home playing video games and you'll have accomplished nothing and then That's kind of shitty. That's possibility. We have to acknowledge that I don't think that this is gonna be easy. But I I think that like There's a lot of stuff here. That's so important And I think it has to start with like you accepting that you're going to be successful You're going to start with you accepting that you are a failure Like you can talk about victimization as much as you want to and I think that that's fair because I think there are a lot of Things that make me furious about your experience and the experience of of phd programs in general And at the top of the list is if a student fails a test whose fault is it? Students incorrect Is it Pi or absolutely Right. There's one person in that relationship who has knowledge and one person who doesn't It is the responsibility of the teacher to help the student along the responsibility of a pi's if your experiment isn't fucking working for a year Like how the fuck do you expect a first-year phd student to figure out why their experiment isn't working? Like that's the job of a pi Like if your experiments don't work for a year And you're doing what your pi is doing. Why on earth are you accepting responsibility? You're a first-year grad student He's the guy who's running the lab Like if he's telling you to change five variables and it doesn't work out like whose fault is that? I want to say him but I also feel like it's me for actually doing the five variable experiment and not saying no, but yeah So so I understand where you're coming from but this is where you have to admit that like you have to acknowledge that there's a power dynamic Right. Did you tell your your pi that you think you guys should do one variable at a time? Yes, and what did he say? No So what are you like? What what are your options then? You kind of don't have any I guess exactly So I think you did what you were supposed to do you raised your concerns with your pi And your pi is young and dumb and a product of his academic environment And so he decided to abuse you in the same way that he was abused The cycle of abuse continues That's like phd programs and academia even medicine is like that It's like these surgeons are like all these medical students cry when I call them a piece of shit Like what the hell is wrong with them? Like it's like yeah, and and they're like, but I got called a piece of shit and it's like yeah, but You don't have to call other people a piece of shit. You can be nicer to them Just because you were abused doesn't mean that you need to abuse others So, I mean I do do I think that you were victimized by your circumstances? Absolutely, but like I don't think in a sense. I don't think that that kind of matters like it it pisses me off and You know when I work with students I try to take the response like i've learned that like if they don't learn that's like my fault Right, and did I really do the best job that I can I mean they're not to say that i'm completely responsible because if I Like try and try and try and they like go home and don't study and don't do anything that I told them to do like Then I put the blame on them. But as a teacher You know if you're doing what your pi is telling you to do and the experiments are not working out then it's not your fault Unless you're being negligent like so if you're being negligent in some way and like half-assing the experiments then then it Then it is your fault But that's why I asked you did you run it the same way as the previous person did your results turn out the same? And the answer to that question is yes, which means that it sounds like you did a good job because you got the same results A couple of other interesting things there. I'm going to go off on a quick tangent But you know, the other thing there is that 70 percent of like studies are like not reproducible So I think that's a big issue Shit, and the last thing that I just want to toss your way is like, do you know? How people win a Nobel Prize in science No, actually So they actually start with a failed experiment all Nobel not all most Nobel prizes at least that i've studied so i've studied 15 or 16 Nobel Prize winning spare experiments in in biology or medicine And all of them start with a failed experiment. What do you think about that? Why does someone get a Nobel Prize? Because they made a huge discovery. How do you make a huge discovery? What a lot of luck, uh sure But what makes a discovery huge what does it mean to be a huge discovery? Uh, either it has a big impact on the world or on the field So it's a big discovery Impact on the world or on the field Okay, but what determines a huge discovery and big impact are synonymous Yeah, right. So what makes something a big impact? Changes everything it changes what something it not every What does it change What people thought absolutely So think about this for a second in order to change the way that people think You have to start With a failed experiment and what I mean by a failed experiment is the people who won Nobel prizes They did an experiment and their results were not what they expected And this is what separates 99 percent of scientists from 1 percent of scientists instead of looking at it as a failure They looked at it as an opportunity. I am expecting this result I'm expecting this result And in the process of figuring out why I did not get the result I expected I'm discovering something huge that changes the way that we look at science Do you get that like the biggest travesty here is that your p.i. Lost an opportunity to win a Nobel prize What you don't understand is that you don't you don't have a year of failed experiments You have a year of data that suggests that something about the world is not the way that we have conceived And if you guys spent the time and energy to figure out what that is, that's how you win a Nobel prize Why did you guys fail? Why is it that all of your expectations think about this Nobel prizes come when all of our expectations are wrong when we have a Thousand expectations for a particular result and that result does not happen And then we discover why then it changes our thousand expectations before that is a big impact So the crazy thing here is that all you see is a failed experiment. I don't even see failed experiments. I see data I see a wonderful opportunity to like understand something about how the variables like result in like compounds in a new and different way It's exactly why you got into a phd program for the first place And I think it's a travesty that that you are in a situation call it luck or call it idiocy of your p.i. Or whatever I mean i'm being judgmental. I mean, maybe the guy's brilliant and compassionate and we're just getting a biased view. It's very possible But like I I don't I don't conceive what you did as a failure at all. I think are you a failure? Sure You can accept that but deep down. I really don't think so Right. I think that in a sense you are a victim of your circumstances I think you did the experiments that you were supposed to do I think the only real mistake you've made here is that you've got a big ego and you have unrealistic expectations Yeah, there are a couple of other things like this is the other thing is when you're smart like you're going to rise until you Equilibriate right like if I take an object of a certain density and I put it into a fluid of a certain density What is the object? going to do Either sink or float depending on The density of or both of them in relation to each other exactly. So if I have a gradient of densities A gradient of liquids of different densities that are going to equilibrate and then if I put an object of different of a different density Where is it going to end up? Whichever one is equal to its exactly. So welcome to academia my friend So where you rise you got accepted to the phd program because you were hot shit in undergrad And you're going to equilibrate to like where you normally belong And so the higher up you go like the more average you become like everyone thinks that's such hot shit that dr. K is from harvard Like in harvard, I am subpar I'm really like no one even knows who I am and like I work with people like you guys think i'm brilliant You guys have no fucking idea. I'm really not that smart. I think i'm really one of y'all I don't think i'm really any different from you guys And you guys are so confused by that and it's like I don't think you guys have been at harvard I don't think you guys have been at harvard. It's like you guys want to see smart people you should go there And and I mean it really I mean I met people that just blew my mind with just how much Knowledge they were able to absorb and hold in their head. I was like, holy shit And so so the one thing to understand is that the better you do The more you're going to feel in a sense like a failure until you abandon this whole complex Right because you're going to keep rising and then you're not going to i've always been able to Get things faster than everyone else that thought is the problem Like if I had to diagnose one thing that I could surgically remove from your brain it is that thought There's comparison in there. There's ego in there. There's an expectation of ease in there Right, there's so many things there that are just like so wrong their potential like that's the other thing potential is such a curse Such a curse. It's such a burden Because you can't win with potential Either you meet expectations in which no one is surprised Or you're below expectations in which everyone is disappointed Yeah It's like average or failure like when you sign up for potential you sign up to be average at best or meet expectations Get a c a d or an f Can't get an a if your potential if you have very high potential you just can't Maybe you can win a nobel prize. That's the only thing that would be impressive to anyone Yeah, that's a very good way of putting it that I hadn't talked about before is it's you're signing up for average Yep at best at best Now I don't really know I kind of got on my soapbox So i'm going to just pause for a second. By the way, do you know anything about IRB applications? Uh, no, I don't know I'm looking for someone to do IRB stuff IRB Yeah, institutional review board. So we're trying to study healthy gamer. So we're doing like research And we're looking for researchers. I just want to know um, so Let's just kind of go back to a couple things. So first of all All right, so Any thoughts or questions so far zach? So, um, I'm not sure if you guys have any questions about this So far zach Nothing comes to mind now Okay, so we've got two options one Is you can tell us the rest of the story because you actually haven't told us everything yet Which I would love to hear if you're emotionally up for it and the second question is like I think there's a question of like What do we do? Right, or or I guess the other question that I would ask you is like how can I help you or how can Myself and twitch chat. How can we help you? And so what do you think should we tell the rest of the story? Let's ask twitch chat Do can you see chat? Yeah, I can pull it up. Okay. Good. It's good that you're reading it, but but i'm gonna Um, tell us what is what does twitch chat want to do? Do do we want to hear the story or do we want to? Get to you know figuring out how to help you What does chat say Uh, I see me pretty Split from what I can see. Yeah, see this is what I fucking hate about Like I always ask them for things and it's like they don't help Both white people happy. Yeah, like like both like they just never they're never satisfied You think having a pi is bad These guys they're never satisfied They want everything all the time More more more. Okay, so let's finish the story. Okay And you cry if you need to are you hoping for emotional catharsis, by the way Uh, I mean if that's what it comes to I guess um, I don't really know because I can ask you Couldn't you know leading probing questions about your emotions? But I i'm not feeling that we're gonna get there if that's okay with you. Yeah, that's fine So tell us the rest of the story. So you you went home You you wept you slept you woke up you ate dinner and then what happened? Yeah, so woke up ate dinner played video games went to bed, um Next day go back to Doing research and stuff um Obviously feeling very down not able to get very much done getting not getting any progress um And I believe it was either the day after or two days after That when I was on the train home browsing reddit again That I came across a thread in our league of legends About a former pro player who had attempted suicide Um, he didn't succeed But they had posted a link to his blog where he left his last note And I read the whole thing Probably not a good decision at the time. Why do you say that? um, I mean, of course everyone's like if you Are in a situation like this, please don't read this and after reading it, I just it just affirmed everything What why does everyone why does everyone? Can can you pull it up? I have to go archive it. Maybe I can um So tell me tell me why is it not a good idea to read that note? I'm confused um Because again, it's it's a person who was on the verge of suicide and his thoughts that he was laying out And I related with a lot of it And it's sort of like it was a confirmation. I guess of everything that I was going through And it was like you're justified in thinking the way you are And other people went through with it. So it's okay to go through with it. I see. Okay, that's okay You don't have to find it. I was just kind of curious. So so I mean it sounds to me like You feel like reading it would make you more likely to try to hurt yourself Yes Okay. Okay. I mean there is data that suggests that suicide happens in clusters um So maybe it is dangerous but And and what about what you read resonated with you? Do you um Loneliness the feeling that the world is fucked up. Um, and it's not there to help you um No, just off my brain, uh Lots of negative things um feeling oh, yeah feeling comfort in games and And I would say fantasy as a whole games anime movies books all that stuff other worlds I guess feel like you belong more in those worlds than you do the real world and so thus diving more into them And being attached to them um and He had said that He preferred to be a third party observer of things rather than be in the mix of them And so that was like his motivation for wanting to kill himself I didn't fully agree with that but like I could see where he was coming from and it's like sort of related to other aspects I guess What what I did and did not resonate with you about that Oddly specific thing to remember. Yeah um I I guess I can give an example in that For some games that I played there's a big speed run scene and I like to Observe the meta of the speed running and understand why they do it But I don't really participate so much in the speed running itself What is being an observer do Um It removes a lot of the stress of the situation allows you to like for me it allows me to experience the joy of having Solved it quote unquote or like solve the problem understanding something Something new without any risk Yeah, so interesting. What do you think about that? It's a good question, um I mean I don't like risk in general. I feel like that's kind of a normal thing. Yep for people But we're asking you questions that are going to have very very plain and simple answers Okay, so it's a very simple question Okay, so it doesn't have to be a complicated answer Yeah It's kind of funny because the questions that you ask I always know that you ask things that are kind of out of the blue and unexpected and I'm hit with them like I don't know what I think. Um good. That's why you're here You're not here to share with us the answers that you already have zach Yeah, you're here to learn the things that you don't know So what do you think about being an observer You say and I think it's it may it may sound simple, but I think it's very good I'm glad that you're laying down basic assumptions because that's important. I don't like risk fair. So what else? Um, I do like to work through problems of things Without and Yeah, yeah without risk. I so like yeah, I like to go like to work through problems of things I like to work through problems of things, but if I can minimize or remove risk then I like to do so If it's something that requires a lot of effort I like to give it a shot and put in that effort But I don't want to have that effort be wasted Okay, so having it be on something that's almost hobby-like in a sense means that even if I don't figure out either someone else will And then I can look at their answer or it's like yeah, whatever. I'll just go do this with something else And it doesn't feel like I wasted any time again low risk. Are you an observer for your life? Uh Sometimes Okay, uh there are times that I Have that perspective where I observe my own life, but and what happens to you in those times? I sort of just become deattached from a lot of the emotional aspects of it. Do you still feel the emotions? Yeah I still feel them but not Quite to the same degree. I don't know how to explain it. Sure We don't have good words for that in english, by the way. Yeah So what do you think? I mean is it a pleasant or unpleasant experience to be an observer in one's life? Kind of just neutral Okay, what is it like to not be an observer in one's life? Uh, I mean life is kind of shit so Feels pretty bad. Yeah, what about when things are good? I mean it feels good in the good situations Um Does it feel better to be an observer or better to feel good in the good situations? I mean specifically in the good situation if it feels good to be in them and not observing them I think that's an experiment that you should run I'd love to hear your answer after you actually Use your scientific training to develop a hypothesis and systematically collect data So what we're talking about is exactly what would that talked about? So when you said when I kind of asked what is it like to not be an observer and you were like well most of life Is shit. So would they said that we're all human being this is the fundamental state of life is dukkha or suffering And that the way to get free of dukkha and suffering is to become an observer That consciousness and mind are separate things and that even as you that emotion exists within the mind But consciousness is separate of the mind and that's hard for us to really understand But it's kind of like what you said. It's hard to describe you still feel the emotions. It's just there's distance between you and the emotions It's like the difference between being in a cage with a lion or maybe i've just been watching too much tiger king Or or being outside of a cage, right? The lion is still there and it hasn't changed But your position with respect to the lion drastically changes what you're able to appreciate or not appreciate about the lion Does that make sense? Mm-hmm And and so I How much of an observer have you been throughout this whole saga with with grad school I Didn't really start doing so until at some point in the therapy that was one of the things that they talked about was trying to Not be in the storm, but be aware of the storm being there. You can't make it go away, but Look at it. Don't be in it in a sense Yeah, which I could only pull off a handful of times at best because it's so hard to do Absolutely, right? So so this is why we train Like we don't start we don't dump people into the ocean to teach them how to swim Right. We start in calm waters and that's why like meditation is normally done like we we start by observing our breath and we separate our mind from We sort of develop a sense of consciousness outside of mind with something like breath that has like nothing No value attached to it and the more valuable things become the harder it is to be detached And in your case, it's it's hard. This is what I think is really unfortunate. Um You know We teach this stuff as treatment and therapists do it instead of teaching it as a basic skill that everyone learns in school Which is really where I think it should be taught Like it's kind of like okay Like a therapist is sort of like someone who teaches you how to swim But people don't seek out therapists until they're drowning in the ocean. It's like kind of really bass-ackwards Yeah Um, and and so that's part of I mean that's part of why we do this, right? So i'm part of our goal here is to help people Understand some of these skills and start to develop them and and hopefully be prepared for when when stuff like what happens to you happen But let's kind of go back to your story. So What happened the next day? Uh, I think actually the next day I went to therapy And I told her all about it and then she was like you should go home today Or well, it was it was more like if like I think that you should you should decide for yourself But if you think that you should then you should go home today um And so that was on like a friday or something and so I took that day off I just emailed my pi I was like I can't do today above the blah. I didn't even like really read much of what I wrote I just sent it Um, and then that day and that entire weekend I spent playing path of exile non-stop for like 18 hours a day Just trying to not experience anything um Path of exile is very good at that. Oh, yes. Oh god Um, then I had to go back to work on monday um I don't remember a whole lot at some point in there I I just I don't want to say like forcefully but like convinced my pi like I can't write this paper. It's not going to happen Um and also was like i'm in a pretty shit place right now I'm thinking about either Taking leave of absence or dropping down to the master's program or something like that I've been talking with the therapist about this. He was kind of hesitant eventually at some point I had to as I brought it up with her. She was like dude. I'm gonna write you a letter To your pi so he understands how serious the situation is because he's not taking it seriously um Eventually decided we decided to uh would drop down to the master's program instead of the phd Because I was almost done with my credits And I was like cool. I'll finish my credits and I'll just graduate take my degree and go do something else And then I found out that I had to write a thesis still and they were like, yeah You got like since you haven't gotten anywhere in your research. That's like at least another six months before you're done with that I was like, I can't take this for six more months um, and then that's when I took the leave of absence and Yeah, then moved out came back here and spent three and a half months Playing video games and not talking about it How does it feel to talk about it today? It's nice to address it um it's like it's Been there and it's been kind of eating away Very slowly because I try not to focus on it, but it's been sitting there and You know, I mean i've been watching a lot of streams and trying to of your streams and trying to like address it myself But there's kind of only so far I can get stuck in my own head Yeah, it's nice to address it and talk about it and Get it out, I guess Do you want to move forward? I guess define that a little bit better Because I don't like I want to get out of feeling shit all the time, but I also just don't really have any I don't like I don't want to go back to what I was experiencing before of this like super high effort thing just so done good Good. I don't think I need to define it. I think you understood the nuance of my question and you gave me a very good answer Right. So there's a presumption That progress is completing your prior goal But it sounds like you don't want to you want to do more than what you're doing right now But you don't necessarily want to quote unquote succeed Yeah Which is interesting right because that's not usually how we think You think that if I fail a test, what's my goal? Cast the next one Yeah, there's a presumption that you keep going Right, but it's good. I'm glad I think it's actually a huge step forward that you realize that you may not want to do that So now we're going to get to so how do you think we can help you zack? What would be helpful I guess how to like Solve these sort of emotional attachments I still have to that because like you say I there's this Feeling that I have to live up to certain expectations even still even though like I I failed And there is I would hope eventually a release from that. I still feel attached to those expectations. Sure It's the burden of potential. Yep. Absolutely. So I think some of this is going to be Propagated by you and some of it is an echo So you've got a choice You just what was your reaction there? Like what we echo, uh I guess confusion Okay So so what I mean by that is like like so the the burden of potential is something that has been fed You've been feeding it every day growing up being the kid who's always been able to get things done faster than everyone else Every time you have that thought every time you make that observation You feed the the the sort of beast of potential Now you failed I don't think that you think very often that i've always been able to do things faster than everyone else Right. So you've stopped feeding that echo you've stopped feeding that beast of potential but an echo remains it's not the original sound it's just The the like, you know, it's the after effects or the shadow Of that potential which is going to still be bouncing around in your head for a while The main issue is whether you continue to feed it or not If you don't feed it it's going to die down on its own Like you'll start to accept that like you know, you should I mean hopefully what you'll do is start to accept that like you shouldn't plan your life based on what you think you should do Or what you're capable of But you'll start to devote yourself towards like doing things that you care about and not really like worrying about whether you do a good enough job You know, I I think if you have a love for science, you should pursue science But you shouldn't get bogged down in getting a phd Does that mean you will get a phd? Yeah, sure. Why not? But it doesn't mean that getting a phd is the goal like the phd is just because otherwise like it's going to be hard to do science If it's like kind of this rigorous rat race kind of stuff You're going to like learn whatever skills you want to or or learn science And then you can go work in industry or you can be an academic like whatever it doesn't matter But like if your goal is a love for science, then that's what you should pursue and don't worry about potential Now the interesting thing is that you're also feeding another beast which is sort of the the beast of like lack of self-worth And this is the thing that sort of says that because I fail I am a bad person like there's a difference between failing like This beast is the one that confuses Failing at a task with being a failure Okay, so for you to be able to take a step back and realize that So for you to be able to take a step back and realize that like once again If you didn't do well in a phd program and you were doing exactly what your pi told you to do like How on earth is that your fault? Sure, if you're like a fifth year grad student and you've got autonomy to design your own experiments like if you're Working in experimental design and then the the experiment doesn't work. That's different But it sounds like you didn't do anything in experimental design you were given you were like hey monkey Go ahead and and perform this dance for me and then do it again every day for 10 hours a day And you were dancing the way they told you to and it didn't work out So I don't really think that that's your fault But you don't see that right and this is where I think that there's there's a lot here where like You kept on using phrases like stressed out and overwhelmed, but that's not really Those are indicators of amplitude They're not like indicators of like direction or quality Does that make sense? Like overwhelmed is quantity. It's not quality So what is the quality of what you are feeling? Are you dealing with shame? Probably are you dealing with fear? Are you dealing with anger? Right, so shame i'm sure we can all accept like that. We've seen pretty close I'm sure we can all accept like that. We've seen pretty clearly that you are a failure, but are you afraid? I mean I was I was mostly angry that Like my pi wasn't taking anything that I was saying seriously and um I it was like I wasn't in control of the situation my input and why I was taken there wasn't valued And I was mad about that and I was mad that Things were going the way they were Are you still mad? I wasn't able to do anything. Yes How mad are you? Yeah Not like crazy super mad but like it's like frustrated like stupid Okay, good Now so now the question becomes how mad are you and how suppressed is your anger? Uh question I don't feel like it's That Surprised I don't know Okay. Okay. Well, we'll trust you right so it's good that you you noticed the question It sounds like you actually did some exploration. There's a good for you. Are you afraid? Afraid of what you tell me See everyone thinks that I make I help people but I don't help people I just make your lives fucking hard Dr k Um Everyone wants to come on and be on stream. I don't think you guys realize how shitty this is for zack This is definitely different than I was expecting It's a different being in the hot seat, isn't it? It's it's it's really different even when you're from the even when you're sitting there You're like, oh how would I react if he asked me these questions? Like you've usually come up with something then you sit in the seat. You're like dude. I got nothing like yeah So are you afraid zack? Afraid That if I try to Branch out of my comfort zone Oh my camera down if I if I try to Like I've spent my whole life in science and engineering and chemistry and like these are the things that I've always been good at I'm afraid that if I try to go outside of that That it won't end well i'm afraid that I Mean again living up to expectations i'm afraid that i'll I won't meet anyone's expectations or what I think will be good Won't be good to anyone else and that that will affect me um I'm afraid that I won't be able to break out of the cycle that i'm in right now Well Yeah, i'm afraid that whatever I end up doing is gonna fail There it is Right So now let's just think about that for a second. So first of all as you say those things Do you feel fear? Yes Are you an observer Kind of Right answer Right. So I think you feel the fear, but I think your acknowledgement of them So when you're feeling the fear fully and it takes over your mind, you can't articulate it Does that make sense? Your capacity to articulate only comes with distance Right, so I asked you a question. Are you afraid and then you didn't know how to answer it? And then a few seconds later then we talked for a moment about how hard it is to answer questions And then you went off and you gave like half a dozen specific fears that you have That's progress That's what you're here for Right. So now you know that these are things that you carry with you, right? These are the different debuffs And you've got to think a little bit about each of these debuffs and how you want to gear in response to those big debuffs So it sounds like you've thought And we haven't really talked about this, but i'm sure other people have subconsciously pieced this together that he's thought about a career outside of science He's thought about maybe doing something else Right and because he shared with us that he has a fear That he's not going to be successful elsewhere So that's a specific fear So that's kind of like okay And so then like if you have a like if you have a debuff that increases your your vulnerability to fire You have to like gear up with like fire resistance gear, right? And so as you move in as you explore other career options, just be aware That you're going to feel less confident than you do in science Which is going to be bizarre in a second because you don't feel confident in science anyway Right But that like that's an additional fear that you have to account for now that fear is not reality Like in general, I think you're going to be fine outside of science. I don't think people have a talent for chemistry Like I think what you're good at is probably some amount of hard work analytical capability experimental design like all that shit I mean you could be a strategic consultant and all that stuff is going to apply You could go into finance if you cared about it and like analyze financial models like and run experiments I saw a really cool Video from three blue one brown you guys should check it out about Simulating pandemics. It's like a youtube channel. That's very cool So he does like statistical analyses and he just like simulates like so he has one about simulating pandemics and different kinds of Interventions and stuff like that. I think that the things that make you good at science are going to apply to a bunch of fields You could even go into like marketing and branding if you want to and just be heavily metric and analytic focused like that's fine I think what makes you good at being you is like not content specific So i'm good at being a psychiatrist. I'm also good at like corporate consulting But my take on corporate consulting is I tend to be like an observer of human behavior an observer of people And I try to teach people about themselves. So i'm a pretty good teacher. I'm a pretty good psychiatrist I'm a pretty good meditation teacher and i'm also a pretty good consultant But it's like that's because I don't define myself by a particular profession I define myself by like a particular kind of skill set or interest and in your case I think you'll do fine outside of science provided that you get to do that Which you really enjoy which is like learning about things and figuring things out Right, so like in strategic consulting for example You know, there'll be a company that will go to Like mckenzie or bain or or whatever and they'll say like hey we're thinking about opening up a power plant in southeast asia Which country should we open it in? And so what they do is like they just take a bunch of information Try to analyze it and then try to give someone a recommendation. We think you should open it in thailand Here are reasons a b c and d If you want to open it in cambodia, here are the things that are different and this is why we think you should do thailand instead of cambodia Something tells me zach that you would be good at a lot of different stuff besides science and chemistry What do you think? I mean Yeah, I can agree I do run into the situation of When I look at various jobs and like, you know, maybe I maybe I can apply my skill set to this Then I don't meet the stupid requirements and I can't apply anyways, but sure Right, so I I wouldn't let not meeting the requirements prevent you from applying So not to say that you should apply for a bunch of jobs where you don't meet the requirements But if there's something you're genuinely interested, I think you should write a good cover letter and send it off I have a master's like a master's in chemistry is pretty respectable like no matter where you end up I think you should get your master's by the way, because that's just that'll be something But anyway, maybe not but The so the first thing is to understand that you have different fears and that as you think about how to move forward Just acknowledge those fears because those fears are part of what's keeping you at home playing runescape. Does that make sense? What else is keeping you at home? Hmm virus sure Sure I would say that there's probably another fear which is that whatever I do it'll end up the same way That was That was one of the things that was really I was conflicted with when I was thinking about what to do Have to drop out or not because I was like, I mean I just had like a severe depressive episode And I haven't fully recovered with it. And if I keep going i'm worried that i'll just fall right back in again Are you still in mental health treatment? Not right now. No, okay So I'd consider getting back into mental health treatment, but I think that that too now you have a some scar Have you you're familiar with some scars? Yeah, I heard the word a thousand times and I still don't remember what it means So so what it is is sort of like a ball of undigested emotion that kind of lingers with you and like colors your vision about the future So you can also think about it like an unprocessed trauma. So this entire experience has been traumatic for you And so as you move forward as long as that trauma is there like, you know If you have if you get married to someone and you have an abusive husband or wife And they beat you Even after you like leave them you're gonna have the fear that the next person is going to turn out that way And even the more sicker thing about the human mind is you may select for those kinds of people Um, which which is sort of like because sometimes our mind prefers and this is sort of this goes back to our Conversation with your mom and your parents where like it would sometimes almost be easier if they just called you a fuck up to your face Because at least that makes sense to you Mm-hmm, if they have faith and hope in who you are and your possibility of success, how does that make you feel? Uh, it's like it's just a lie. Yeah, right So like like oddly enough so like now this is now we can understand why people who have been abused seek out abusive partners Because when someone treats them genuinely they're like what the fuck This is a lie And then someone treats them like shit and they're like, ah, this is a game. I know how to play And so bizarrely our mind prefers that which we know to that which is good for us And you've got to be really really careful because you're not a fuck up Have you failed? Sure, but like you failed because of a combination of circumstance and an experience It's not you aren't a failure, but have you failed? Absolutely Mm-hmm, and that's okay And so going forward you've got to be really careful about that and this too I think your your your answer is going to be to a certain degree an observation Right, so you have to notice that there's going to be a part of your mind That's going to tell you that i'm going to fail at everything i've done. But like by the way, did you finish second grade? Second grade. Yeah Like like elementary school second grade. Yes, I succeeded at it. I I got through it. What about third grade? Yes, fourth grade yep fifth grade You're saying like got through it and succeeded, right? Yeah Yes. Oh, so you have succeeded at stuff you graduated from high school Yes, you graduated from college Yep, but I thought you were going to fail at everything you do Do you like okay, yeah, what do you feel no tell me well like it's Uh Let me know if you need help Yeah Yeah, I need help So those don't count them, right? Yeah, is that what you're thinking? Like it doesn't count Yeah, it's it's it was stuff that happened earlier. It was easier. Um, it just doesn't it doesn't count You could get it just doesn't it doesn't count It doesn't count, right? Is that how you feel? Yes. Yeah So let's just think about that for a second. Your mind is coming up with all kinds of reasons why it doesn't count It's fucking second grade Who fails second grade? Sometimes people do right It doesn't count So just now see what kind of look at what rigged ass game your brain is playing with you It's funny because you say that i'm like, yeah, my brain's rigged my brain's like Rigs you're talking about i'm like it's like So tell me how is the game rigged very good now you're growing What am I saying i'm saying the game's rigged I i'm taking one single event and i'm fixating on it and Uh I I don't know. Yeah, and what are you doing to all of the other data points? Ignoring them. Absolutely right I'm gonna run an experiment zach and i'm going to say that Feeding a plant with beer is better than feeding it with water And i'm going to take a dozen plants and i'm going to give them 11 of them water and i'm going to give one of them beer and after Two months I have 11 healthy plants and I have one kind of stunted plant and what i'm essentially doing is taking my 11 Healthy plants i'm saying fuck this I'm gonna dump them in the trash and there's my beer plant. See I was right all along It's the only one that's growing The game is rigged Because you're discarding data all the time This is what how a cognitive bias works and this all comes from your emotion Because that's like it's irrational so it's coming from your emotion fine You can't convince it otherwise and when I point it out to you rationally even your ration mind is like yeah The game is rigged, but then the other part of you that's What does that part say? That part is like of course, it's not rigged. This is like everything else doesn't count This is you know, this is what happens this sucks and this is the way it is. Yeah, right So just see that about yourself, right and let's like laugh at it. It's like that's kind of fucked up Yeah, yeah, right but that's that's how it is so when we our emotions aren't rational so we can't expect them to be rational Understand that there's a part of yourself That is hurt and there's a part of yourself that has lost confidence Now the real challenge is Is in your struggle with that part I wouldn't say you should try to fight it or overcome it because that doesn't really work too well What I'd say is you should take it with you Just take it with you Just take it with you Right, like every everything that you do Take this failure with you And say there's a decent chance like this part of me is saying like there's a logical part of my mind that says that Actually, i'm not really a failure and this part of is like no fuck you You are a failure Nothing you could do is right and then you're like, okay treat it like a you know like a eccentric uncle Who comes to all of your family gatherings and you can't get rid of him Like 11 people are dressed normally and he's wearing you know Underwear over his pants because he feels like he's a superhero And like he's just going to be who he's going to be like the part of you that feels that you're a failure is going To feel like it's a failure and it's going to take time For you to comfort and reassure that part and for him to kind of calm down It's like a dog that has gotten like riled up and is afraid that like some someone's an intruder You just have to you can't kick the dog out. The dog is going to be with you Your failure is going to be with you. So carry it with you. Let it be with you and then also don't let it control you Does that make sense Yeah easier said than done, but absolutely. So how do we make it easier to do? What do you think? See, I got nothing So what i've been trying to come up with So I think this is where as you deal with each of the deep as we identify things they become easier to deal with That's number one. So if you're saying i'm stressed and i'm overwhelmed you can't do anything with that People don't just wake up one day and say i'm unoverwhelmed now done Right. So if we think about like, you know, something like therapy what happens is we help people Identify the reasons that they're overwhelmed and then it's like we've i've used this analogy before it's like detection in a game, right? Like you have invisible things that are attacking you And that's overwhelmed because remember it's not like quality You don't know what it is. All you know is you're taking a shitload of damage every round Like I can't see it. I don't know i'm overwhelmed But just the dps is through the roof And then once you identify it then you can start to actually like do something like oh there's like this like Mob that's here that's attacking me. Let me like move over this way And then like its effect on you lessens. So identification is the first thing Noticing is the second thing and this is where we come back to the observer So the more that you can act from the observer the less powerful all of this stuff becomes And so this is where if you can develop a meditative practice go for it I think you should consider getting back into mental health treatment if it's an option That'll help you for it. And then also give yourself some time. I think three three months of playing like runescape is not that bad I mean not to say that you know, it's good or that it's unacceptable I'm sure there are people who've been playing group escape for seven years and haven't accomplished anything and you know Comparison and stuff is bad, but i'm just saying like give yourself some time and cut yourself some slack It's april covid is going on anyway, like you're not going to finish your semester I'd say take some time to take care of yourself and work work on yourself Like your goal is to like repair damage Between now and the fall of next year if you need to apply for something consider applying for something But basically take care of yourself get get rid of the depression, you know or handle that Try to grow the observer try to notice your fears and then try to you know, get get yourself ready by like august If you want to I mean i'm tempted to I'm actually tempted to start writing letters to people As a psychiatrist to let them just play video games for like a month at home like just give them just like a You know burnout Thoughts questions I Guess I mean i'm still feeling like I don't want to go back. It's fine So i'm sort of in a state of like, okay, what do I do about that I got to So you don't do anything about that right now? Okay, right So you don't have to make that decision today and you don't even have to make it a month from now Like you make it and if it's too late and you miss the deadline then you miss the deadline, whatever What i'm saying is that like you're it's going to be really hard for you to make so like do you acknowledge that your mind? Is irrational right now So do you want to be making decisions with this mind? No, there you go That's why i'm saying like for a couple months Just focus on yourself and like try to heal and try to get into a better place And then though the answers about what you do with your career and stuff like that Like this is the big problem that people have like they say like, okay, should I go back to school? Should I switch careers like forget all that? That's all that shit is unimportant actually right now The important thing is that your instrument is miscalibrated You're a scientist And if you don't like tear your scale at the beginning like How are all of your experiments going to be? Pretty shit exactly. So the first thing that you should do is just tear your scale right Tear is t a r e by the way means calibrate So you've got to calibrate first and we don't think about it this way. We don't give ourselves time to heal We don't give ourselves. We just say like oh i'm a failure like yeah, so like deal with your emotional You know aftermath First and give yourself some time to heal play some runes runescape man. Go for it You know, but like don't just do runescape for 18 hours a day like find a therapist spend some time meditating You know, it sounds like you watch some march streams and stuff. So continue doing that I'd consider reading in your case Meditations by marcus or alias. Have you ever read it? Do you like to read? Yes, so read meditations by marcus or alias Write that down. It's like a 99 cent thing you can get on amazon. I like to read hard copies of stuff It's free because it was written like 5 000 years ago or something or like a thousand or two thousand years ago So it's in the public domain Um But you know read a little bit and learn a little bit and grow a little bit And give yourself time to like heal from the damage and understand that your instrument is not calibrated or healthy right now So any of the decisions this is where people like this is the problem is they get into the self-fulfilling prophecy of you You try to move forward and you fuck it up because you're just not ready to move You've got two broken legs and you try to get up and you fall down again And then it reinforces the idea that you're a failure and then you try to get up again And then you still fall down because your legs are broken And then you try again and you try again and the more you try The more it becomes true that you were a failure And then you wind up stuck because at this point instead of one incident you have a dozen instruments in You have a dozen data points And then your mind which believes that wants to discard good data now now it's it's one thing for you to be able to see Okay, I have 12 years of successes 12 years of successes in one year of failure But once you have 12 years of successes and 12 years for failure of failure that becomes a way harder battle to win even rationally So give yourself time to heal first because otherwise you're going to convince yourself and you're going to be true You're going to be right that you are a failure Thoughts questions before we wrap up that makes sense Yeah, that that makes perfect sense. I'm sorry. I couldn't transform your life, but that doesn't really happen Okay Makes sense. Um, okay. Well, good luck, man Yeah, thank you. You have any seriously any clothes? I don't mean to end things abruptly, but that's sort of my spiel Uh, no, I mean we touched on everything that I wanted to touch on. Um It's yeah, it was it's helpful. It's oh, let's meditate actually Oh, yeah. Yeah. So sorry. Go ahead. That's the thing we do here. Isn't it? Yes Um Yeah, it's it's good to to talk about it again and um Yeah, last thing last concrete thing that you should do is have a conversation with your parents That's going to be emotionally hard Right, but you need to ask them I would ask them because I think the reason you don't have the conversation is because you're afraid of what they're going to say There's a part of you that knows that until you talk even though you believe that they think you're a piece of shit There's a part of you that's holding on to hope that they're going to say something hopeful and there's a part of you that It's I don't know how else to describe this but it's so hard to hear Their positivity towards you right now That's yeah, that's almost exactly what I was gonna say. It's like there's the part that doesn't want to hear the hope Yeah, but you've got to do that Right. So like it can be a simple conversation. I wouldn't have a drink while you're doing it, but you can just say You know, what do you guys what do you guys think about? This last year i'd love to get your thoughts And then you can share with them like this is how this last year is gone for me And then they're gonna always look forward don't worry about looking forward or have you found a job? Are you applying for a job just to ask them like what they think about your situation? You'll be surprised if you can get the ball rolling. It's gonna like the conversation is gonna go on its own Getting it started is really the hardest part But and that too is like it's hard to do so just think about that a little bit Right now you're you're trying to make decisions and move forward when you've got all this shit like you're encumbered So you've got unburden all that and then it becomes way easier. You'll be back to where you were zach Okay Okay you um Meditation let's think Have you seen triphasic breathing? No, okay, so let's do that so I'm gonna take a few minutes to think about this So i'm going to teach you how to breathe so I want you to sit up straight Okay, and um Okay, so I want you to first observe the breath in your chest And now I want you to focus on your stomach And as you breathe in I want you to push your stomach out Like expand your stomach and suck the air down into your abdomen And notice that as you breathe out, huh Sorry, I have Losing focus being stupid in my head Be stupid in your head. Go for it Let the focus go And then as you breathe out Notice that your stomach contracts pulls in So you can just focus on the sensation of belly moving out and belly moving in or You can visualize Your belly button or navel moving away from your spine during inhalation And then pulling towards your spine during exhalation You can really push it all the way out kind of drastically And pull it all the way in like suck in your spine to where you can sort of where people would be able to see your rib cages And now what I want you to do is as you belly breathe try to keep your chest somewhat still So there may be an inclination to expand everything when you breathe it breathe in belly and chest Try to focus the expansion on your belly During inhalation and exhalation let your chest remain still During inhalation and exhalation let your chest remain still So this is the first phase of breathing focusing on the abdomen And now we're going to add the second phase Of breathing in with a full belly of air As you breathe in and with a full belly of air Then I want you to forcibly Expand your chest or sort of intentionally expand your chest afterward and breathe in just a little bit more So phase one is abdomen and phase two breathe in with a full chest of air And then out Abdominal breathing Chest breathing And out Abdomen chest and out And do one more breath And now we'll add phase three so abdomen Chest and then raise your shoulders a little bit spike up your shoulders raise your clavicles and breathe just a little bit more And then out It's not going to be very much in that last phase just five percent In with the belly And with the chest and then up with the shoulders And out In with the belly Expand the chest raise the shoulders and out Now do three breaths just like that And let them flow together let your breath be slow If you begin to feel dizziness or lightheaded Let your breath pause After the exhalation just sit And then as your respiratory drive awakens breathe again Practice for about another minute You Are Now go ahead and finish the breath that you're on let your eyes remain closed Just feel the person that you are You You may have a feeling of failure you may have fear anger shame You notice that those are just pieces of you That you either underneath that all Or even encompassing all those feelings is the real you That all of the fluctuations of the mind and the self happen within the space of you And Now sort of feel the outline of your physical form Feel your head your shoulders your arms almost like a tracing And notice that the fear and the shame and the anger The failure they exist somewhere within your belly somewhere within your chest somewhere within your throat Possibly your head but they mostly live in the torso or the abdomen And now notice for a moment that that is not the whole view that you have arms you have shoulders you have feet you have legs But there's no fear or shame there Is no anger or failure That you are not those things And sit with that sensation You And the world may victimize you may take advantage of you circumstances could change Your job applications could be rejected You may have a grade on your transcript But that none of those things Can take you away from this All those things may be true, but they are not this And that this is your work, right To be in this place and that this is who you are and you carry this person with you all the time It's not about finding it's about returning Now let yourself come back It's april 1st World is falling apart And how do you feel today zack Do you already feel anything it's kind of chill Good kind of chill. Do you feel like playing runescape? Oh, yeah So notice that too, right Yeah, notice that desire that impulse don't become attached to it quite yet But notice it's there too not just the negativity Anyway any thoughts or questions for you wrap up for the day man No, awesome, dude, I feel better now listen man. Good luck. I really wish you all the best Take care, man. Thank you All righty, oh there we go We forgot to ask him about his um, yeah, go ahead play runescape Um, we're gonna have to wrap up so we're at our time for today I know people are asking questions and stuff. Ah, how do you get rid of the potential burden? So that's why like that's a whole like that's a whole hour about how to deal with potential and how to understand And so how do you deal with major life setbacks? I think so let's let's answer that question Okay, so how do you deal with major life setbacks? So you recognize that it's a setback you recognize it's a failure That's okay. It's not the end of the world That you survive failure And you also notice the damage of the failure. So you've got to figure out like where did you take damage? and whether they be emotions Whether they be You know the house of cards coming down senses of failure being able to unable to move forward You start by identifying all of the ways in which you've taken damage And then you recognize that like all of those problems that you face Or all that damage that you've taken is going to make it so that your mind does not function properly And so then you like even if you try to move forward This is the hard thing is that people who face setbacks they try so hard to rebuild their lives That like you guys know this right you guys actually try really hard you struggle very very hard to like not play runescape It's not that you're not trying. It's just that you're not succeeding And you don't no one sees the effort, but you feel the effort like in moments. You feel the effort so intensely so intensely And so the problem is not one of lack of trying. It's not that you guys are actually lazy It's just that you guys are using an instrument That like is not functioning properly So the way to deal with a setback is not like positive thinking you can do it buddy. No It's to recognize. Okay. What what within me is broken? What within me is busted? What have I learned from this experience like am I scared of ever trying so be it recognize that see that Be like, okay. How do I deal with that? Like let me just see that thing and let me carry it with me When you go to the job applicant when you like go for a job interview for example And you feel like you're not going to get it. You don't like suppress that part You don't say like oh like there's no use in going Because if you suppress it, that's what happens. It actually takes control It takes control through suppression And exerts its influence in the subconscious and then prevents you from acting so you've got to bring it to the conscious Notice it and then like say fuck you To it Right. You say okay fine. You you don't say you can say you say, okay You're a dog that has been really really frustrated with my whole situation. Fine. You think we're going to be a failure Maybe you're right. Maybe you're wrong I'm going to let you be where you are and i'm going to go ahead and go to the job interview Anyway, and i'm going to do the best job that I can Decent chance you're going to be right. We're not going to get it Let it be with you accept it and move forward don't let it control you And you say like oh just don't let it control me Like how do you not let it control you you let it not control you by accepting it because so far you haven't accepted it And it controls you all the time acceptance leads to freedom So alcoholics anonymous is the most is the best evidence-based treatment to get rid of alcoholism There's a great meta-analysis about this recently. I think from the cochran collaboration And the first law, I mean, I don't agree with everything around alcoholics anonymous I think I don't really I do a different kind of thing and I tend to be pretty effective But their first thing is that they acknowledge that they're powerless in the face of alcohol It's like how on earth does that work? Like even if you don't agree with alcoholics anonymous or you think there are different ways to do it Their first step is to acknowledge that They're powerless in this in the face of this So they cede control and thereby get success Which is really weird But there's like actually scientific data that suggests that that Psychological principle which by the way is what buddha has been teaching or taught a couple thousand years ago Buddha started teaching it a couple thousand years ago even before buddha. So like buddha's teachers were essentially yogis Right. So if you call that hinduism or not, that's up to you. I think hinduism is sort of a western construct But people have been saying that like in india and china for thousands of years and along comes a and even christianity says that and a sort of Encapsulates that concept and then people take like this neurobiological addiction to alcohol And they're somehow able to overcome it through that concept So acceptance of the thing actually leads to liberation Outcome absolutely You