 So the first thing that I kind of want to talk a little bit about in terms of sleep is, I don't know if you all know this, but we have a lot of information about sleep, right? So if we look kind of statistically, this is the level of scientific advancement in the world. Is it an all time high? At least, you know, most people can sort of assume that. I don't know about the Sumerians and some of these ancient civilizations that may have gone to space and whatnot, but generally speaking, we can assume that our level of understanding scientifically of sleep is in an all time high. We also tend to have access to science at an unprecedented level, right? So now we have, for example, lots of people like myself who understand some degree of science, i.e. our clinicians, and we show up on Twitch or YouTube or whatever, like TikTok, Instagram, whatever. And we will like teach people about the science, right? So not only do we know the most about sleep that we've ever known, but the ability for you to access that information is also at an all time high. So this kind of begs the question, if this is the most we've ever known about sleep and access to information about sleep is an all time high, why is everyone struggling with sleep? Right? It's kind of weird. Like there's something fundamentally wrong with the way that we approach sleep. So the first thing that I'm going to kind of do is like talk a little bit about what how people approach sleep. So the first thing that happens is someone says, I have trouble with sleep, right? So we're going to actually flash to a subreddit post that kind of triggered this, which is great post. Dr. K, I need to sleep help. Okay, dear Dr. K, I was wondering if you could make a stream video about topics around sleep, insomnia, sleep disorders, depression and sleep reasons why people have difficulty sleeping, etc. I believe many people many struggle with sleeping, especially my fellow gamers advice is much needed personal experience. I don't allow myself to sleep even though I'm tired and exhausted. I take a long time to actually fall asleep. I wake up multiple times at night. And the overall sleep experience does not feel like quality sleep and I don't feel rested at all when I wake up. I also have a hard time getting out of bed in the morning. I struggle with depression and PTSD and I'm seeing a therapist would love any advice. So beautiful post. We get requests like this all the time. People are constantly asking us about sleep. And so the other thing that tends to happen is if you look at like people who disseminate information, sleep is a hot topic. So a lot of people are talking about it, right? So you'll tend to have I've sort of noticed that like you'll have experts in sleep. So you'll have some kind of scientists like probably a PhD, who is an expert in sleep or neuroscience or something like that, right? So they really understand the science and then what they'll tend to do is they'll offer recommendations. So look at this. They'll look at studies and stuff and they'll say like, oh, like there's a study that shows this and like this is what we understand about the brain and neuroscience and circadian rhythms and stuff like that. And then they'll make recommendations. And so despite the fact that their science is really solid and their recommendations appear to be really good. We see still seem to have a societal sleep problem. And why is that? Okay. And so I think that the problem here is that if you look at a lot of people who are scientists, they have very little clinical experience. So the majority of people who are scientists who will offer sleep recommendations have not worked with like actual humans around their problems. That's not actually part of their job, right? Their job is to do a clinical trial where we offer an intervention. We're going to take 10,000 people. We're going to split them into a control group and a normal group and 5,000 people we're going to give, let's say some kind of supplement or herb and 5,000 people we're going to give them a sugar pill. And what we're going to detect is that on average, the people who take the herb or the supplement do better than the people who take the placebo. And so they conclude that on average this herb or supplement results in like an improvement in sleep. But let's remember that out of those 5,000 people, let's say 2,000 people got better with the placebo and 3,000 people got better with the herb. Let's remember for a moment that like 2,000 people got better with the placebo and 2,000 people didn't get better at all. So really all you're talking about is 1,000 people in the middle that got better from the herb, right? So if you really think about it, only 20% the effect size or what's called the number needed to treat for your medication is like you have to treat 5 people on average to get actually that may be the incorrect calculation. But there's this concept of number needed to treat where when we look at science, we look at populations and what we end up with is sort of like even though the study is successful and someone can say very scientifically that this works better than placebo, there's actually like 4,000 people in that study who did not benefit from it. And this is the way that science proceeds, right? So then we'll do clinical trials on, for example, CBT for insomnia, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. And that appears to work for sleep. People will develop apps and study like these kinds of things and we study yoga and we study this and we study that and we study this kind of thing and we found this kind of correlation. And so all of our science sort of is like very generalized and looking at populations. And so this is the reason why people have difficulty sleeping because the question is if you are having difficulty sleeping, should you adjust your diet? Because there's a study that shows that diet is helpful for sleep. Should you take this particular supplement? Because there's studies that shows that this is helpful for sleep. Should you see a psychologist and do cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia? Because there's a study shows that that works and there's no specificity of recommendations, right? So this is the downside of that. I've sort of noticed, right? I'm not trying to criticize anyone. I think they're offering good information. But when it comes to why we have so much information about all the stuff that's effective for sleep, when it translates to an actual human being or you, it doesn't seem to translate very well, right? And there's a good reason for that. And that's because the scientists tend not to be clinicians. On the flip side, we have clinicians, right? So we have medical doctors. We may have psychologists that work with people, individuals, and then they'll sort of make recommendations, do CBT, things like that. And if we have all these clinicians, why isn't sleep cured? Like, don't we have all these people who are on the front lines, clinicians like myself that are working with people every day? And shouldn't that fix it? And this is the problem is that clinicians tend to be taught pathology, right? So if you go to a medical doctor and you say, I have trouble with sleep, what they will do is try to diagnose you with something. And if there's something pathological that they can fix, they'll help you, right? So if you have sleep apnea, for example, they will give you a CPAP machine, a continuous positive airway pressure machine that prevents you from becoming apnic. And then you're you'll be fine. So if you're in the 10% of the population that has a clear diagnosis, i.e. something is really busted with you, they may be able to fix that. So other examples of this could be like hyperthyroidism, for example, so leads to insomnia. So if your thyroid is out of whack or you have sleep apnea, a medical doctor can fix that. But medical doctors are individualized and pathology focused and and PhDs or scientists tend to be like understanding the science, but can't tailor their recommendations to an individual person because they're not like really diagnosticians, right? They're not clinicians. They're not taught in that skill. And this is the basic problem that I see with sleep is that we have a bunch of information, but all of the people who can individualize your recommendations are focusing on pathology. And all of the people who have access to the really high quality scientific information that is not pathological in nature, i.e. supplements, herbs, things like that, don't really have a very solid training in diagnostics and sort of teasing apart what is going on with an individual. Which is why we get these super generic recommendations, right? So you'll get like these these like people that go on podcasts and stuff and there's nothing against them. And they'll say, OK, here are five things you can do for your sleep. There's data to support all five of these things. And then like you'd think that if those actually worked, then like sleep would be cured for everyone, right? Like those five things like it every problem would be solved. But the truth is the problem isn't solved. And why is that? It's because there's a lack of diagnostic specificity. OK, you're with me there. So let's start with this. OK, so here's how we're going to approach this. And this is why it's going to be complicated. All right, chat. So what we're going to do. OK, there we go. There we go. OK. So let's start from the top. OK, why sleep a problem? So remember, kind of like I said, so we've got Ph.D.'s over here and they're really good at the science. Right. But they don't know how to provide personalized recommendations. This could also be, I mean, maybe some of them do. I don't know that maybe that's a little bit unfair, actually. And I think about it. The problem is that on a podcast, you're not going to get a personalized recommendation, right? On a YouTube video, you're not going to get a personalized recommendation unless it's Dr. K, which we'll get to in a second. So then then we've got MDs over here that are really good at personalized stuff. But what we're really trained in is pathology. And so the fact that like our whole society has insomnia and difficulty sleeping. Has to do with the fact that like this is where we're getting our information. So what's kind of in the middle here? And this is what I think is like really, really missing from Western science and what I really appreciate about my Eastern education. Is like basics of how sleep works. So what we're going to start with today is like understand like how to sleep work. And so an industry that has done a really good job of this that is like, for example, the fitness industry or like the bodybuilding industry. Right. So like what's happened in this industry, you have a lot of people walking around who like are in shape and they know how to get shape. Get in shape. They're healthy. They're fit. And why is that? It's because there's a lot of like basic information about how to get physically healthy in terms of like building muscle mass and working out and stuff like that. There's a lot of information about the basics of fitness that is not coming from PhDs and not coming from MDs. Like if you go to a doctor's office and you say, can you help me get in shape? Like it's a basic function of the human body. Like the doctor is going to be like kind of, but not really. They can assess you for diabetes and maybe start you on anti-diabetes medication. Maybe they can like give you an inhaler. If you've got asthma, they can focus on the pathology, but they're not going to like help you figure out how to work out. Right. And then on the flip side, you've got PhDs that, you know, they'll give you good information to they'll say you can use this supplement and then you'll build muscle mass better. There's this kind of thing that you can do. There's this kind of thing that you can do. But once again, they're not going to give you personalized recommendations. They're not going to give you like a workout plan. Right. Because that's something that a personal trainer does. So the main thing that I think is really missing is like the basics of like how sleep works. So where does insomnia actually come from? Right. Like why do people have difficulty sleeping? What are the factors that lead to people like what makes it easy for you to sleep? What is your body and physiology and brain rely on to go to sleep? How does your body know when you should go to sleep? What are the signals that make you sleepy? What are the signals that keep you awake? And these kinds of fundamental things, because we don't understand them, we can't tailor our treatment to them because we don't like we just treat insomnia like one word. OK, so let's start by looking at insomnia and unpacking it because there are three there are different problems when it comes to I have trouble sleeping. So the first problem that we have is a lack of specificity with our jargon. So if we talk to people who have insomnia, what we find is there are people who have trouble falling asleep. OK, this is completely different. So the mechanisms of falling asleep are completely different from the mechanisms of staying asleep. Right. So some people like and I know it sounds kind of weird, but you guys get that falling asleep. Like if I have narcolepsy, I have no problem staying asleep. Like the problem is that I fall asleep way too easily, completely different paths. So both of these people will say I get bad sleep, but there's no specificity in terms of like what's your problem? Do you have a problem falling asleep or staying asleep? Because as we'll get into their different mechanisms and if this is your problem, your solutions are going to be different than if this is your problem. OK, so next thing is that people have difficulty waking up. And this too is another like it's a completely different thing. Right. I have no problem falling asleep. I have no problem staying asleep. I have a problem waking up. And so people will say my sleep sucks. Well, why is it? Well, it's because it's hard for me to wake up in the morning and I feel tired in the morning. Well, OK, so that's you guys get how that's like a completely different thing than like someone who has anxiety, who is awake for three hours, like worrying about tomorrow. That person's solution is going to be completely different from the person who can fall asleep on time and just has a lot of trouble waking up in the morning. Now, the two may be related because if you sleep three hours late, then you're going to have trouble waking up at 7 a.m. Because you fell asleep late. So I can we can understand why things get tangled. But let's start by understanding there are different mechanisms at play when it comes to insomnia. The next thing that I'm going to say is I'm tired during the day. Or in the morning. So you may ask, what does that have to do with kind of insomnia? So if I ask people, how do you know that your sleep is bad? If I start with that question, what most people will do is they'll say, well, I feel tired in the morning or during the day. So this is the tricky thing about sleep. So there's a huge problem with sleep misperception. There's a ton of data that shows that human beings are very, very bad at judging their sleep. And why is that? Because you're not conscious. So people will say, for example, that I've only slept three hours last night. People say that kind of crap all the time. How do they know they only slept three hours? Do you guys realize if you only slept three hours a night, like how torturous it would be to be like bored for five hours in the middle of the night, like doing absolutely nothing? It's so bad. Like sleep misperception is like a huge problem. So this is another interesting thing. Right. So like there's a fantastic medication called a clever medication, I should say. So there's a there's a medication called Zolpidem, which is also known as the trade name in the U.S. is called Ambien. And like this is like a wonder drug for sleep. So if you look at the clinical trials for an Ambien or Zolpidem, essentially what it does is increases. It only improves sleep by 30 minutes. That's all it does. It gives people 30 more minutes of sleep. OK, that's it. And people think it cures their insomnia. And why is that? It's because it targets misperception. So the real thing that's Zolpidem, it only increases their sleep by 30 minutes. It gives you half an hour extra sleep. But what it really helps people do is fall asleep and it gives them the perception that they slept well. This is really what it improves. But the actual amount of sleep that you get from an Ambien or Zolpidem is very low. Right. And so like it alters sleep misperception. So if we kind of look at insomnia and we try to ask people the question, OK, like, why do you think you are having bad sleep? The first thing we need to understand is that misperception is a huge problem. And people tend to like poorly diagnose like their own sleeping problems. And that sort of makes sense because you're not conscious. Right. So you don't really know what's going on during sleep. And so what people will do is they will reverse engineer their sleeping diagnosis based on what they are aware of, which is like tiredness during the day. Right. And so this is another reason why, for example, sleep apnea is so difficult to diagnose, because sleep apnea is like this period of time where you stop breathing during sleep and it happens like 10 times a night, 30 times a night, things like that. And people don't realize they never realize all they know is that they're tired during the day. And by the way, 10 percent of the population has sleep apnea. So then what happens is you go to a sleep study and then like you measure your apnic episodes, you sleep in a laboratory where you're being constantly monitored. They monitor every single breath that you take over the course of the night and then they diagnose you with sleep apnea. OK, so when we talk about insomnia, we're talking about a number of discrete processes. And what people tend to do is they like believe that, you know, they have difficulty sleeping because of like poor data from the next day or they are aware of some of these things. Like people are aware of this stuff, right? So if I wake up or I'm tossing and turning all night, I have a vague sense of what tossing and turning all night is. But what we'll really discover is it's not really all night. So just take a step back from that. But these are kind of three discrete things that are four discrete things that people will say when they say I have trouble, my sleep sucks. OK, so the first thing that we have to try to do is sort of recognize that there are four discrete things that have four discrete processes, which we'll have in turn four discrete solutions. OK, next thing is. Let's think a little bit about. So if we want to understand what are the components of sleep, if we want to understand how to tackle these problems, we have to understand like what sleep is, why we sleep and like how the body knows how to fall asleep. OK, so why is this important? So like I want you all to just think about this for a second. Right. So if we want to optimize something in our body, we have to understand like how it works and why it has evolved the way that it has. And once we understand like what how the body works, then we can start to make very targeted changes to optimize things in the direction that we want to. So once again, I'm going to use a fitness analogy. Right. So once we understand, OK, the body craves carbohydrates because they're calorie dense. And back when we evolved, like there were survival benefits to eating calorie dense food. OK, now that I understand this basic principle, I understand like what I need to alter in order to like work in line with my body. So I'm going to need to eat like complex carbohydrates that in higher fiber diets to help me feel full. And if I eat high fiber foods that help me feel full, it will counteract some of the caloric craving that I have. So we can start to leverage our understanding of like biology and physiology and diet and fitness to optimize our physical health. No one does this with sleep. Right. Like no one explains like what are the basics of like why we sleep. OK, so let's go over the basics of why we sleep. And once we understand like why we sleep and how we sleep, we'll start to see where these four problems arise. OK, so the first thing to understand is that sleep is really, really important. And it's highly adaptable. This is why it's such a problem. So if we look at, for example, your heartbeat or your respiratory rate, your heartbeat and your respiratory rate are not like that adaptable. So the goal of the heart is to continuously pump blood like all the time. We don't need to adapt it. It's not like we want to stop pumping blood for a couple hours and then like pump extra blood later. Like, sure, you can increase your heart rate from let's say you have a resting heart rate of like 70. You can go up to like 110 or 120 push come to shove, but you're never going to go up to a thousand. Like you'll die if you do that. And you're never going to drop down to like 20. Right. Like if you do, then you're bradycardic and you can have all kinds of problems. Sleep is a little bit different, though. So if we think about, you know, let's say I'm walking around in the jungle and I see a tiger and then like I want to be able to control my sleep. Right. So like if a tiger finds me at two in the morning, I need the ability to like control my sleep. I need the ability to like stay awake despite the fact that I'm tired. Otherwise, I'll get eaten. And similarly, like I need to be able to adjust my sleep schedule. I need to be able to stay up all night. Like, let's say I'm a woman giving birth. And if I'm in the middle of the labor process and it's midnight, it's not like my body's like, OK, well, now that it's midnight, let me shut off. Let me just go to sleep and just pause the labor. No, like you need to stay up all night and like finish the process of labor. Right. So there are all kinds of situations which sleep needs to be highly adaptable. And this is why it changes so easily. Right. It's really easy to screw up your sleep schedule because sleep by nature is highly adaptable. Our body is designed to be able to adjust our sleep schedule based on our needs. So other good examples of this are like jet lag. Right. So our body doesn't have a fixed clock. Our body has a clock that adapts to things like sunlight. This will become really, really important later. So like, you know, we start off jet lag when our internal circadian rhythm is out of proportion to daytime and nighttime. But our body fundamentally, a lot of its triggers and cues about when we should sleep and when we should be awake have to do with like light and darkness. Right. And so this has to do with like this has even been evolved over like, you know, farming and stuff like that. Like humans tend to be more awake at certain times of the day, less awake at other times of day. It's all biological in nature, but it's adaptable. So. So here's kind of what I'm going to do. I'm going to draw something. OK, so this is like our sleep. So this is like so this is our this is, let's say, a night of sleep. And then if you have problems falling asleep, there's like an obstacle here. So our body has a very natural tendency to start at point A and go to point Z. Right. That's what it wants to do. It wants to sleep for eight hours a day. And it's got like a this is a natural tendency towards stuff. And then there are some kinds of problems that can cause an obstacle to our body's desire to sleep. So this is falling asleep. So we'll talk about what these factors are. And then they're staying asleep. So there are things that will disrupt us. In the middle of our sleep. And then there's even like waking up. Right. So like there are difficulties with waking up where our body needs to be awake. And there are things that are like the natural mechanisms that are involved in waking up where our body naturally wants to end the sleep. It's not like you have to stop sleeping intentionally. Right. After you sleep for a while, your body's like, we're done. Time to wake up. So there are natural mechanisms that involve waking up. There are natural mechanisms that involve staying asleep and their natural mechanisms that involve falling asleep. And if we understand what those are, we will start to gain power over these different problems. OK. So what I'm saying about the sleep wellness industry, for lack of a better term, is that what does the sleep wellness industry do? It just like drives stuff this way. It's like, here, take this supplement. Here, take this herb. Here, use this app. It has no cognizance of like these different physiologic neuroscientific mechanisms. They're just like, hey, do this thing. Hey, do CBT for sleep. I'm not saying that this stuff isn't effective. I'm just saying it's just like you're just adding crap into this this like cycle, which is going to cause problems. So medical doctors are guilty of this, too. Oh, I'm having trouble with insomnia. If I'm a psychiatrist, I'm like, here, take some trazodone or here, pop an Ambien. And I'm not really addressing the underlying mechanisms with any specificity. So come this morning, I am tired. Because I have this crap floating in my system. Right. So like, trazodone like floats around and gives people a sense of daytime tiredness. And this is the next problem with sleep is that all the things that we do over here that allow us to basically overcome and ignore all of these factors create side effects in the morning. So I'll hit on this again. So what are the solutions that people use? We use substances, right? Whether it's a chemical, like whether it's a prescribed drug or a supplement or whatever, we just decide like instead of fixing any of this crap in the middle, what we're just going to do is like, I'm a pop a pill. I'm going to take a supplement. I'm going to take me some magnesium, right? Because sometimes that helps with insomnia. I'm going to take me some valerian root or some Apigenin or like some kava kava. Like, there's all kinds of stuff out there. Right. So let me just take me some of this stuff. And then instead of fixing the problem, we have that stuff floating around in our system. And then we're tired the next day. This is also true of marijuana, right? So like people will say, oh, I use marijuana to help me sleep because I can't sleep without it. Well, then what happens like the next morning? So marijuana does different things. So it affects. So we have, you know, our sleep cycles. Right. So we've got like, you know, different phases of sleep. And then we have REM sleep. So basically early on in the night, we'll have like a lot of, let's say, phase one to two sleep. And then, you know, this is, let's say, phase three to four. And then maybe we've got some REM sleep over here. So let's say here's like early night. And then as the night goes on, we've got sleep phase one to two. And then we enter phase three to four. I'm a little bit rusty on this. And then we have more REM sleep. Right. So we have different phases of sleep. So our brain does different things. And so our one of sleep looks like this. And our seven of sleep looks like this. So the natural change, our sleep cycle, like evolves over the course of the night. And what that means is if I use marijuana or alcohol, like if I drink alcohol, I will pass out. Right. So alcohol will overcome this step. No problem. Marijuana will overcome the step of falling asleep. The problem is then it messes with this stuff and we get like non restful sleep. And we even talk about it in our lingo. Right. We say, OK, I drink alcohol to help me pass out. It's not a natural falling asleep process. It's bypassing this step artificially with chemicals, which results in an alteration. So like when you drink alcohol, for example, it decreases the amount of REM sleep that you have. It decreases the amount of late stage sleep that you have. And so you result in non restful sleep. And then you wake up in the morning. Tired. And then what do you do? Right. So if you use pot or alcohol to sleep at night, what do you do? Then you drink coffee. Whoo. Stimulants. Right. And then once I start pounding the coffee, when nighttime comes around, I have trouble falling asleep because I've got this artificial stimulant floating around in my system, preventing me from sleeping. And then what do I do? Right. So can't fall asleep. Oh, yeah. Marijuana. Sweet. Marijuana. Poor quality sleep. Wake up tired. Coffee. And this is the cycle. And so then people are kind of screwed because now you have a potentially marijuana dependence or a caffeine dependence. And without either one, you're kind of like you can't function. Right. So this is where like I think if you want to really conquer sleep and be good at it, you can't just take a supplement. You can't just go to CBT for insomnia. Unfortunately, like sure, those things can help like CPAP and sleep apnea is the one thing that I'd say is like or maybe hyperthyroidism stuff too. But there are definitely things that you can do in like absolutely like supplements can help like doing CBT for insomnia can help. There's overwhelming data that does this. So I experience so I've helped like a bunch of people like really just sleep like babies. And I'd say that in 80 percent of the people, I've done it without a single damn medication. Maybe I'll use it at the beginning because there are other things going on. But for like 80 percent of people, it's about understanding how sleep happens and then understanding, OK, what is the problem that is interfering with your sleep and then targeting that thing specifically? Because if you use something else like an herb, a supplement or a medication, that's going to cause side effects because that's just how like stuff that you stick in your body works. Right. Like things will create physiologic changes if you ingest them. OK, so I'm not blaming people who use substances to help them fall asleep. Hell, I sometimes prescribe substances to people to help them fall asleep, including marijuana. I've done that before. Right. But what I'm saying is that a sustained, healthy way to get restful sleep comes with like understanding sleep first and then targeting what your specific like problem with sleep is. And it feels just so much better. It's just tricky because no blog post from the sleep nutrition supplement industry is going to explain this stuff. Right. Because it's against their business model. Like they're just trying to sell this thing. And I'm not even blaming them because they can be scientific about it. They're like sleep is a huge problem. Let me go look at what science has to offer. And they see, oh, this herb works. Let's start selling this herb, which is totally fine. Like there's a there's a value to that. But in my experience as a clinician, this stuff is ultimately way more valuable. OK, so next question. So now that we understand the sleep cycle, OK, so there's like we start, you know, at nighttime. And then we wake up, ideally in the a.m. There's falling asleep, staying asleep, waking up. Right. These are our three obstacles. So let's start with this. OK, how does the body like like let's just talk about sleep for a second. How does the body know? Like what how does sleep work? So imagine that I'm an alien or you're like you have a five year old kid who comes to you and says, you know, person, can you please tell me how does the body know? Like how does the body know when to go to sleep? What do you all think? What are the factors that determine when we go to sleep? Right. OK, so good. So one person is saying a denis in. Excellent. So let's talk about a denis in for a second. Hold on, hold on. Melatonin. Hold on. Hold on. Melatonin. Exhaustion. Exhaustion. Darkness. Or light. Very good. OK. Temperature. OK. So people are saying stress. Excellent. A lot of good stuff here. here. Okay, so so remember, for all the all five heads out that that are like, like endogenous body clock circadian rhythm, like militant and light sensitivity. Remember, we're talking to an alien, you're not allowed to use science. Because that's not a thing. Like, let's understand sleep on a basic level. What the does that even mean? No science. Tell me like on a basic level, how how does sleep work? How does the body know when I'm supposed to go to sleep? Okay, we'll get to the science, don't worry about it. But for now, we want to understand a very simple level. You're tired. Okay. Okay, so let's talk about a couple of these things. Okay. So how does the body know it's tired? Right, so okay, people are saying routine. We'll get to these. Now it's not low blood sugar. See, there's the science again. Nope, happens to be wrong. Fatigue. That is a synonym for tired, right? Okay, so now here comes the so like, let's just think about this, right? So can you sleep for 24 hours a day? Science is coming. Don't worry, chat. But let's start with basics. Generally speaking, no, right? So if there's some kind of illness, and we'll talk about illness at the end, you've done that, I'm sure, right? So then we'll even talk a little bit about how you've been able to do that. Because generally speaking, people don't sleep for 24 hours a day, right? Generally speaking, people will stay awake for about 16 hours a day. And they'll sleep for about eight hours a day, on average. Okay, so there may be variations or absolutely times where I've slept 20 hours. And so but the basic idea is that, you know, if I wake up at like 10 in the morning, like, it's really hard for me to sleep eight hours at 3pm. Like for most people, you may be able to do it because your system is all messed up, totally fine. Or there could be an illness going on. But generally speaking, like our body kind of wakes up after like, somewhere between like seven and 10 hours, right? And we get tired pretty naturally somewhere around 16 hours. And so even if you talk to people who have really super messed up sleep schedules, this tends to be like pretty consistent, maybe it'll be like 12 to 20. Right, so they may stay up for 20 hours, then pass out for 10. And their sleep schedule is constantly changing. So one day I'm going to wake up at 10am. And the next day I wake up at noon. And the next day I wake up at 2pm. And then I'm going to sleep at like, let's say four in the morning. And the next day I wake up, go to sleep at six in the morning. Next day, I go to sleep at six in the morning. Right, like, but if you talk to people, this is what you'll see, there'll still be some degree of consistency. Okay, so the general thing to understand is that our body, and this is where science comes in, so now we're going to, you know, unlock the science. So like, we're just going to simplify things with adenosine. So basically, as we are awake, our body, our brain builds up this chemical called adenosine, which is a waste product. It's kind of, this is an oversimplification that's not really true in some ways, but, you know, comes from ATP because we recycle ATP and stuff all the time. And so ATP is our major energy source, which stands for adenosine triphosphate, right? So we've got a couple of phosphates on there. Each time we bust off a phosphate, we release energy. So, oh yeah, look at that, some of that sweet, sweet energy that comes out, right? And so this is like where our body gets energy. As we take an adenosine triphosphate, we turn it into adenosine diphosphate, and we get some energy in the process. So as we are awake and active, we're going to be building up adenosine. And then as we sleep and rest, we're going to decrease adenosine. Okay? So this is just a broad corollary that I'm drawing, but there are other metabolic waste products. So over the course of like, let's say a 24 hour day. Oh God, my handwriting is so bad. This is just something y'all got to understand, okay? We're going to have waste products that build up for the first 16 hours. So these are metabolic waste products, right? Like adenosine. And then when we sleep, we're going to go ahead and kind of bring those back down, right? So then at the end, when we wake up over here, we're like back to our baseline, right? So zero waste. Okay. Now, when people don't get good sleep, what we'll end up doing is you may sleep. So for example, if you have a problem with your sleep, like, let's say you use like marijuana or alcohol, which you'll end up with is this, even though you're sleeping eight hours, the quality of your sleep in terms of, and I also don't know if this is really metabolic waste products that gets altered, but whatever crap gets created, right? So when you wake up, you're actually going to be like, you're going to feel cruddy because you're like waking up over here, right? So this is why using some kinds of supplements or even medications can be unhealthy. Y'all with us? So the first thing that we're going to pay attention to is adenosine or just like metabolic waste that our body builds up. How else does our brain know, our body know when it is time to go to sleep, right? So this is the use science chads over here. We're going to just talk about darkness and light, right? So like our body has a thing called a circadian rhythm. And light is a huge, huge part of like our body's physiology of sleeping and wakefulness. So let's step away from humans because humans are going to get complicated by all kinds of things, but we can look at other mammals, right? We can look like monkeys, which are genetically like 99% similar to us. They have a heart just like we do. They have a brain just like we do. They have lungs just like we do. They have kidneys just like we do. And so like, how does a monkey's sleep cycle work? Well, it has a lot to do with light. So when our body, so our body adopts a healthy sleep schedule using light as a signal, okay? So this is where melatonin comes in. So when there is light, melatonin production shuts off, okay? And when there is darkness, melatonin production goes up. And melatonin primes us for sleep, okay? And then melatonin in turn helps us sleep. So why is this a problem nowadays? So now what people do is they supplement melatonin. Instead of having our body create it, we are going to start taking it before bed. And then melatonin has been clinically effective to improve sleep, right? Help people sleep. But why is melatonin being shut off in the first place? Why do we need to supplement it? Why aren't we getting enough of our own? And it turns out that blue light or the wavelength that's emitted by screens shuts off melatonin production. So essentially because we're using screens, we are, we stop melatonin production and so therefore we're popping a pill. Pop a melatonin, we try to balance it out, and then hopefully we sleep. So here's something I'm going to tell you all as a physician, okay? Nothing that we human beings do to try to, anytime we try to artificially do the body's job, we're worse at it. So I'll give you guys just an example. So the body has this mechanism of homeostasis, okay? And homeostasis is like maintaining a balance. So like let's look at homeostasis of blood pressure, for example. So like our body has all kinds of very sophisticated mechanisms to keep your blood pressure at 120 over 80. And then along comes modern medicine, which we sort of have to do, and we'll give people like anti-hypertensive. So people's blood pressure is too high. So people have hypertension, which is elevated blood pressure. So if my blood pressure is, let's say 170 over 100, then along comes Dr. K, who prescribes you an anti-hypertensive medicine. And what do you guys think the side effect of anti-hypertensive medicines are? How do these people wind up in the hospital when I give them anti-hypertensives? Do you all know? What happens when I try to fix their blood pressure by lowering it with an ACE inhibitor? They pass out. Excellent. And why do they pass out? Because their blood pressure is too low. So instead of winding up at 120 over 80, like they end up at 100 over 60, and then they pass out. Right? So generally speaking, when we look at popping pills and administering medicine, we do not get anywhere near the sophistication of what the human body is able to achieve on its own. Okay? And so this is why we end up with this crap. Because when you use, let's say you use a substance, like marijuana or alcohol, you're taking a gigantic hammer to this sophisticated circuit that is your brain and just smacking it over the head. And this is why you pass out. Right? It's even in our language. There's no, there's no like sophistication to it. It's just like, wham. And then you wake up the next morning and you're tired because you just took a hammer to your system. And then you need caffeine and then you feel jittery. Right? And then you can't fall asleep. It's just, it's terrible. Like trying to, you know, it's kind of like I work in addiction medicine and sometimes people will speedball and the speedball is when you use cocaine and heroin at the same time to balance out each other's effects. But I can tell you that people who use speedballs are like not as good as people who like just let their body sort of naturally equilibrate to how they should be feeling. Okay. Right. So we will try to supplement stuff, which is fine. And then we have like all these, these, you know, studies that show that melatonin helps, which is true, but let's start to understand light and darkness. Okay. So like our, our first thing is metabolism. So what drives sleep metabolism drives sleep. Second thing is light drives sleep. Okay. What else drives sleep? So we're going to talk about physiology and now all of you scientific people get to say stuff. Okay. So someone said stress. Okay. So let's see if people have watched Dr. K's guide. Does anyone remember from Dr. K's guide how stress interferes with sleep? Who knows the answer? Anyone know? Anyone know? Cortisol. Good. And what does cortisol do? How does cortisol mess with sleep? You all remember? This is a tough one. You gotta know. You gotta know a little bit of neuroscience here. Increased alertness. Very good. Right. So alertness and that damn thing, the reticular activating formation. So let's understand this. Okay. Bunches of details about this in Dr. K's guide, but we're going to do a quick, quick run now. Okay. So let's try to understand like why, why, what did stress used to be when we evolved? So let's say I'm a monkey and like what does stress look like in my life? Right. So like I see a predator, there's a snake. Oh crap. There was a python on the tree that was next to me. So I'm going to move away from it and then I'm going to, I'm going to sleep at some point. So when I see the python, my, my body is going to release two chemicals. I'm oversimplifying stuff. Okay. So I'm going to release adrenaline, which gives me a short burst of energy, like wakes me the F up. And then I'm going to release cortisol, which has an, a, a, a, a duration of action of four to 24 hours. Okay. So then my body secretes cortisol, my adrenal glands. And then for the next four to 24 hours, I have this hormone that's going to float around in my body and it's a hormone. So it travels through the bloodstream and affects every single one of my organs, by the way, that's what makes it a hormone is that it affects everything. So it's going to affect my blood pressure. It's going to affect my sense of hunger. It's going to make me feel less hungry. It's going to affect my immune system. It's going to affect my liver. It's going to route blood away from my liver. It is also going to affect this part of my brain called the reticular activating formation, which is the part of my brain that helps me sleep. And what does it tell to my reticular activating formation? What does it, it says, Hey, you need to wake up very, very, very easily, because if we hear a twig snap, it could be the python. If we smell something that smells like a python, I need to be able to wake up. So generally speaking, it's hard to wake me up when I'm sleeping, but when cortisol is floating around in my system, it's very easy to wake up while sleeping. Oh, interesting. Dr. K, are you suggesting for a moment? Hold on a second. Does this mean that interrupted sleep may have more to do with stress and cortisol than let's say waking up in the morning? Oh, maybe, maybe that could be true. Maybe they're actually discrete physiologic and neuroscientific mechanisms that are responsible for each of these three things. And if we target each of those mechanisms and understand what turns them on, and then we go back to the root of how they're being turned on, and then we actually end up turning them off, we will fix your sleep problem. Weird, right? I know it's kind of bizarre, but maybe if you have trouble sleeping because you're stressed out all the time, dealing with your stress in during your waking hours will actually naturally resolve your sleep problem. It's weird. Weird. Maybe you don't actually need to take a supplement. Maybe what you need to do is deal with the stress that is activating your brain and telling it to not go to sleep. Interesting, interesting. Maybe. I don't know, though. We'll see. Okay, so that's just one example. So if you have stress and you have a high level of cortisol floating around, so here's a good example of modern things. Okay, so let's say I'm failing out of school. Right? My future. This is not something that is a temporary thing. So our stress system evolved to deal with like short-term threats, like Python, right? It's not like on the 30th of the month, the Python is going to show up, so I'm dreading it for the next 29 days. Oh my god, I got an F on my first test, and for the next three months, no matter how hard I study, I can't get an A in the class. My future. Cortisol level, constantly high. Alertness level, constantly high. Irritable. Hunger is all messed up. Right? Digestion is messed up, because remember, cortisol reroutes blood away from your GI system and liver. And my sleep is messed up. My future, which you're stressed about every single day when you go to class or don't go to class, your cortisol level goes up. And then you can't sleep, because your reticular activating formation of cortisol is like, hey, better sleep lightly, because we're going to get screwed, because our system, our biological machinery cannot differentiate between a tiger in the woods and failing out of school. Like it just doesn't have the sophistication to do that. And then what happens is, oh, my sleep sucks. Let me take this herb, and that'll fix it. Right? And then you wake up the next day and you're tired, because you've got the herb floating around in your system. GG. Okay? So stress is absolutely a big part of it. The other physiologic hormone that we're going to, by the way, there's a lot more complexity than this. Okay? I'm just using this to illustrate a point. The other hormone that we're going to talk about is insulin. So if I were to ask y'all, what makes you sleepy? Right? Because if we want to understand how to go to sleep, let's start with this. Okay. There's stuff about metabolism and light and cortisol and okay. So what keeps you awake? Stress keeps me awake. Excellent. Next question is what makes you sleepy? Excellent. This is the right answer. A burrito makes you sleepy. Right? No, no, no. So this is what we call the food coma. So let's understand ourselves. Like what is going on with the food coma? It's like 2 PM. I haven't eaten all day. And I have a gigantic burrito because I'm starving. And then it's like, and it's hard to stay awake. And then I drink a cup of coffee to make it through the end of work. And then nighttime rolls around and I have difficulty sleeping. Where did that all begin? It began with the burrito. Okay. But not just the burrito, because eating a burrito is not the only thing that correlates with an insulin spike. Okay. So this is what happens when you eat food. You release a hormone called insulin. Insulin is an anabolic hormone. Okay. What anabolic hormone means is that it's a hormone that activates, like it tells your body, hey, it's time to build stuff. So it's time to store away food. It's time to process calories. It's time to build glycogen, build fat, build muscle. So we're going to go into like building phase. And when we go into building phase, like we get sleepy because our body does a lot of tissue repair, for example, and building stuff while we sleep. So for example, we know that our brain grows while we sleep. We know that muscles grow while we sleep. So if you want to be a good bodybuilder, you need lots and lots of sleep because that's when your body like builds stuff, right? We're inactive. We're not expending energy. We're building things. So anabolic sort of having an anabolic metabolic metabolism or an anabolic mode will be pro sleep. So what tends to happen is when we eat a burrito, we will release insulin and insulin in turn will make us sleepy. So in the first couple weeks of medical school, I was super stressed out for reasons that aren't important. I was having trouble sleeping. So I decided that I was going to do something called burrito chemistry. And so what I did is before I went to bed, I would eat a gigantic burrito. And then I would listen to biochemistry lectures because biochemistry lectures were so hard to stay awake during, right? So I don't know if you're like me, but biochemistry lectures are like hard for me to stay awake during. And so that combination would like knock me out. The cool thing is that like by the next morning, my body has digested the burrito. And it's not like biochemistry lectures have any side effect. If anything, maybe I absorb some biochemistry in my sleep. And so when I wake up the next morning, I'm actually like feeling okay, right? There's no herb floating around in my system. There's no trazodone floating around in my system. I like feel pretty good. So we can actually use physiology and especially insulin and the kinds of foods that we eat and when we eat them and how we eat them to help us go to sleep. So once again, the insulin thing though is not going to affect us here or here. The insulin thing will affect us here. So burrito chemistry targets this. Y'all get that? Stress reduction targets the first part too, but in different ways because there's it's not just one thing. Stress has multiple effects on your body, right? Okay. So this will all come together. Don't worry about it. All right. So okay. So these are kind of like three things that we're going to talk a little bit about metabolism, light and physiology as like mechanisms that will affect the three dimensions that we are talking about. Falling asleep or four dimensions. Falling asleep, staying asleep, trouble waking up and feeling tired during the day. Okay. Now so we can also see that technology acts here, right? Sleep cycles are going to be sort of here as well in terms of like metabolism. So what I mean by that is that, you know, like if I wake up at noon, it's going to be hard for me to go to sleep at 9 PM. Y'all get that? And that's essentially like due to our internal metabolism. Okay. So we've talked a little bit about these three dimensions. So let's go back to our diagram and now we're going to start talking a couple of other things. Okay. So we're going to talk about medical stuff. So here's our sleep diagram. So here's, you know, our zero, let's say our 10, right? So we have obstacles to falling asleep, obstacles to staying asleep, obstacles to waking up. Okay. Those are all discrete and we'll get to solutions in a second. The next thing that we have to talk a little bit about is illness. So if you have an illness, this line no longer applies. What we're dealing with is a slightly different line. So like if we think about correcting an illness, there's like something. So if we haven't, let's say I'm a hyperthyroid. Okay. What's going to happen is when I'm hyperthyroid, these things are going to be altered by something fundamental. So our like level of thyroid hormone, like creates a completely different scenario. So the normal things, the normal physiologic stuff may be insufficient. So I can even correct this problem. I can do psychotherapy around my stress and I can manage like waking up well. But if I'm hyperthyroid, all the stuff that would normally fix my problems may not fix my problem because there's an underlying physiological state, which is completely different. So for example, burrito chemistry is not going to help me wake up feeling rested if I have sleep apnea. Do y'all get that? So the thing about illness is that illness like fundamentally alters things. And then this has to be fixed in order for the other stuff to like, you know, start working properly. Do y'all get that? So let's talk a little bit about the conditions that lead to altered neurochemistry, altered physiology that just sort of like in which normal sleep no longer applies, right? Because everything we've talked about so far is just like normal sleep and how it works and what are the drivers for sleep. So the first thing is mental illness. So this is the cool thing. I mean, it's not cool, but it's interesting intellectually. So this is the interesting observation that I made that I'm sure lots of other people made, but I don't know why they don't teach us this explicitly. So the common denominator for every psychiatric illness, depression, anxiety, psychosis, OCD is impaired sleep. The one symptom that all people who have a psychiatric diagnosis, that may be a little bit of an overgeneralization. I'm sure there's something out there that doesn't apply like maladaptive dream daydream or something. But generally speaking, if you look at the common denominator for all mental illnesses, it is impaired sleep. And so this is when I got curious about sleep. And this is by the way, how I developed all this crap, because I thought to myself, I was like, oh, like that's kind of interesting. I wonder if this is the common denominator. If I get really, really good at helping people with their sleep, I wonder if like I would help all of my patients instead of learning depression treatment, anxiety, instead of becoming an expert in depression treatment, an expert in anxiety treatment, an expert in OCD treatment. I wonder if I just become an expert in sleep. Can I actually help everyone that I see? And I think the answer is basically yes. So we know that depression leads to sleep impairment. We know that anxiety leads to sleep impairment. We know that PTSD leads to sleep impairment. And the other really interesting thing, so other causes are going to be like hyperthyroidism. So there's all kinds of causes. So I'm not going to cover them all. So for example, there's this condition called familial fatal insomnia. I've seen one patient with this. It is terrifying. So this is a genetic condition that is almost like a prion disease. So you inherit some kind of protein that later in life prevents you from sleeping and then you can't sleep, like you literally cannot sleep. So some fundamental circuit in your brain that lets you fall asleep fails and then you start to become like psychotic delusional and eventually you die. It's a terrifying condition. We're not really covering all of the physiologic causes of sleep because they're exceedingly rare. So we're just covering the big ones. So at the top of the list is mental illness, hyperthyroidism, sleep apnea. And there are other things. So acid reflux. There are also circadian rhythm disorders. So these are things like shift work disorder. So these are people who work night shifts, right? Also medical residents and doctors. There's like, you know, basically something that is, what is it? Late shift. I forget the name. This is basically like night owls. People have a night owl circadian rhythm. There's like circadian rhythm, like NOS. There's a bunch of these diagnoses, but essentially these are diagnoses where we have an internal biological clock, which tells us when to wake up and when to go to sleep, which by the way is influenced by all the things that we already discussed, like light and metabolism that somehow gets shifted off. And so those are unique diseases which have their own treatments. My point is that, you know, if you have, and the interesting thing is that these map on to particular areas, right? So generally speaking, people with anxiety have difficulty falling asleep. People with depression suffer from early morning awakening. So in the case of depression, we see something very interesting, which is even if you go to sleep late, like if I have trouble falling asleep and I go to sleep at midnight, I wake up at 4 a.m. every day and I feel super depressed and my mind is racing, right? So these discrete processes, PTSD tends to happen here, have difficulty staying asleep. Why is that? Because they have nightmares, right? So we even have some medications like prozocin, which will stop nightmares and help people with PTSD sleep through the night. So people with PTSD don't necessarily have troubles falling asleep or waking up, but even if they have trouble waking up, the reason they have trouble waking up is because their sleep is disturbed in the middle of the night, right? So we can even see amongst mental illnesses, not all of the insomnia is the same. Like there are discrete different sources of insomnia that particular mental illnesses will target and damage, which results in these three buckets. So hyperthyroidism, for example, will have will act here and here, really. But we'll see, like a lot of times people will have difficulty falling asleep if they're hyperthyroid. Sleep apnea sort of is noticed here, but is really a problem over here. Okay, this is really where sleep apnea acts. So once again, we've got like tons of evidence that insomnia is not all the same. So if you're listening to your favorite wellness podcast and they're like, oh, this thing helps with sleep. Like I think the reason that everyone is still having sleep problems, despite the fact that we have 1000 Wellness Podcast is because I don't hear anyone talking this specifically about sleep. And that's like why the problem is persisting fundamentally. So if we have reflux, for example, reflux acts here and here. So people can have trouble falling asleep if they have reflux. So just to understand this a little bit. So reflux is when you have stomach acid, which normally belongs in the stomach and the stomach is a high acidic environment. So it's protected against the high acid. Our esophagus, which is the pipe that connects our mouth to our stomach, shouldn't have stomach acid in it. Stomach acid will damage it. So when we have reflux, we have a lazy valve or lazy flap that allows acid to leak from our stomach into our esophagus. Then the esophagus starts taking acid damage every round. As it starts taking acid damage, you're like being injured and it releases all kinds of inflammatory chemicals, bumps up your cortisol level and causes all kinds of problems. So reflux can actually cause this as well. So this is the kind of thing where as long as you've got reflux going on, you can cut out caffeine all you want to, but as long as you've got that reflux signal, you can deal with your internal worries about how your life is never going to go anywhere or whatever. You deal with all that crap. But as long as the reflux is creating a physiologic, like you're sitting in a pool of acid, your esophagus is sitting in a pool of acid, that's going to create a physiologic effect, which will make it hard for you to sleep. The key thing here is that different kinds of illnesses are going to alter the general trajectory that you're working with. That's why we call it a pathology, because it changes the game. So playing a normal strategy of trying to use burritochemistry or leveraging, like having a healthy light kind of balance won't work properly because there's some other confounding factor. So let's talk a little bit about solutions for sleep. How are we doing so far, chat? Y'all doing okay? We're like one hour in, so we're going to pause. We can actually stop. We can do solutions later. We can absolutely do a recap before we jump into solutions. Let's do a recap. Excellent. Excellent. Thank you. Okay. So let's start from the top. Okay. The first thing is despite an increase in the amount of science and an increase in the dissemination of scientific information, why is insomnia such a problem? So I believe it is generally a problem because scientific studies look at populations and do not recommend individualized treatments for insomnia. So you can have all these general recommendations, do this for sleep, do that for sleep, and we're about to get to those. But the key thing to understand is that insomnia is not homogeneous. It is not one thing. It is a constellation of different things. And if you want to conquer your insomnia, what you need to do is start to figure out first what kind of insomnia you have, because each one has a different solution. So we talk about why people have trouble sleeping or what their perception is. They say, my sleep sucks. What that means. They could be talking about one of four things. Number one, they have difficulty falling asleep. They're staying awake. They go to bed on time. They're tossing and turning and they're not able to fall asleep. Number two, even if they do fall asleep, they're tossing and turning all night. They wake up in the middle of the night. They don't feel like they get restful sleep overnight. So when they wake up in the morning, they feel unrested. Number three, I have difficulty waking up. So this could be related to number two or related to number one, right? If I toss and turn for two hours and I don't actually go to sleep on time, let's say I go to bed at 10 PM and I have to wake up at 6 AM. But for the first two hours, I'm tossing and turning, then I'm going to wake up tired. Or if I do go to bed at 10 PM, but if I'm tossing turning all night, I'm going to wake up feeling tired. Some people have difficulty just waking up, even if they do go to bed on time. And even if it does appear that they sleep pretty well. The fourth reason that people say that their sleep sucks is because they're tired during the day or in the morning. And the key thing here is that if we want to conquer insomnia, we have to know which one is our problem because each of these involves different mechanisms. And if we fix those mechanisms, we can fix our sleep. So then we got to this diagram, which is sort of like, okay, hold on a second. Let me actually. Right? So the solutions that society tends to offer us tend to be like instead of focusing on falling asleep, staying asleep, or difficulty waking up and offering us a tailored solution, what we tend to do is recommend things just blanket, right? Take this herb, smoke marijuana, drink alcohol, do CBT for insomnia, take this medication that is prescribed by a physician. And all of these things don't account for any of the specificity of what is causing our sleep problem. We're just taking a huge hammer to the problem, which in turn means that we wake up tired in the morning because we're not dealing with the root of the problem. Then we enter into this cycle where I wake up tired. So I need marijuana to fall asleep and then I pass out and then I get low quality sleep. I wake up tired. Then I have to drink coffee. And since I drink a bunch of coffee, I can't fall asleep. Since I can't fall asleep, I need more marijuana. Right? So we end up in this vicious cycle where like our solutions become our problems. So in order to understand this, I think the key solution is like, let's understand like how sleep works. Like what are the basics of sleep? What helps us fall asleep? Why do we fall asleep? Why do we get sleepy? Why do we have difficulty waking up? What determines when we wake up? Because think about that for a second. It's really interesting, right? You don't need anything to wake you up. Like if you go to sleep now, you will wake up at some point, right? So there's some internal mechanism that causes you to wake up. What are the mechanisms that cause you to wake up? What are the mechanisms that cause you to go to sleep? So we talked about a couple of those. Metabolism, right? So over the course of the day, we build up metabolic waste products. When we go to sleep, we clear those metabolic waste products. When we clear those metabolic waste products, we tend to wake up. Okay, this is why if you, for example, if I have a 36 hour shift as a doctor, I'm not going to wake up in eight hours. I will be sleep deprived and it'll take my body longer to clear those metabolic waste products. So instead of sleeping for eight hours, I will sleep for 12 hours. And there are other different things that you have to make up for the sleep debt over the next couple of days. So I'll sleep like 10 hours a day for the next three days instead of sleeping 16 hours at a stretch, right? So there are all kinds of complicated mechanisms, which we're not going to go into right here. But so metabolism is one big reason why we get tired and why we wake up. Light is another huge reason. So our body has been evolved to be very sensitive to light in terms of telling us when to go to sleep and when to wake up. So even if we think about jet lag, how does jet lag get corrected? Think about that for a second, right? So I have a circadian rhythm, which wants me to go to sleep at a particular time and wake up at a particular time. How does the circadian rhythm adjust? How does it know how to adjust? It uses light, right? So light is a huge part of our ability to sleep. Third thing is we have all kinds of physiologic mechanisms, which we're just going to use too, just to illustrate this example. One is cortisol. So when we get stressed out, we release cortisol. Cortisol goes to our brain and turns on this part of our brain called the reticular activating formation, which then tells us that we need to sleep very, very lightly or sleep less because we're in danger. And so if you're in a chronic state of stress, your body is literally going to be telling you to wake the f up all the time and sleep very lightly. So any kind of noise will wake you up if you have a high level of cortisol in your system. So in order to fix that problem, you have to deal with the underlying stress and then you'll be able to sleep better. The other thing that we talked a little bit about is insulin. So when we eat food, we secrete insulin and when we secrete insulin, it makes us sleepy. Okay. So then we've talked about mental illness, that all of these mechanisms are fine and good, but this is in a normal, healthy functioning human being. If you throw on some kind of mental or physiologic illness, you're playing a completely different game with a completely different set of rules. So if you want any of that other stuff to work, you have to move back to the baseline by treating that illness. So that could mean treating the PTSD, it could mean treating depression, it could mean getting a CPAP for sleep apnea. There are all kinds of other stuff. It could mean getting your acid reflux treated, get yourself a PPI and we'll talk about that kind of stuff, which is a proton pump inhibitor, which is a treatment for acid reflux. And so that's where we are so far. Okay. So now we're going to talk about solutions. So the first thing that you should do, we're going to start with, let me see. Okay, let's start with general solutions and then we'll get to specifics. Okay. First thing you should do is get a medical evaluation. And why should you start with this? You should start with this because if any of these things is going on and you're not aware of it, like the rest of the stuff may not work, right? This could be a really simple fix. If there's actually some kind of pathology going on, like if you can correct your thyroid level and like easy done, finished, right? So this may be the biggest bang for your buck. Okay. Next thing you should do is diagnose your sleeping problem. And I don't mean like give yourself a medical diagnosis. So maybe isolate is a better word. So this is where you can use something like a sleep diary and try to figure out, okay, what is actually my sleeping problem? Is my problem that I have difficulty falling asleep? Is my problem that I have difficulty staying asleep? Is my problem that I have difficulty waking up? Is my problem that I feel tired during the day? And be a little bit careful and be critical. And this is where you want to like measure stuff, right? So people will say, oh, my problem is that I get three hours of sleep a night. But if you actually use a sleep diary, what you will discover, you will uncover the sleep misperception, which is that you actually fall asleep around 11. And then you may have opened your eyes briefly at like two in the morning. And then you actually get out of bed at seven. And you may discover that you're actually sleeping a normal amount. And then that should trigger something really interesting because now you know, okay, so there's something else going on. I'm actually sleeping eight hours a day. So components of a sleep diary, which we'll try to put together something, some kind of like worksheet or something for y'all. But what time do you fall asleep? What time do you wake up? How rested do you feel on a scale of one to 10? Right? So do this every day for a month. Other things you can do is like, yeah, so other things that I would add is like, what is your technology use before bed? What was your bedtime routine? What was caffeine, alcohol, marijuana, intake like that day? Right? So like, what did you do in the four hours before bed? Any particular sources of stress that day? Right? So you should start like collecting data over time. There are other things that we'll add to the sleep diary. We'll try to put something together for you to see. So you can start collecting data over time. There are other things that we'll add to the sleep diary. We'll try to put something together for you to see. Right? You can even include some stuff about dreams if you want to, but we'll get to that in a second. So this is where you need to collect really, really high quality information so that you can make a targeted intervention that will work for you. Okay, so sleep diary is really important. Next thing. Okay, so now just general solutions. So you can start collecting data over time. So you can start collecting general solutions. So the first thing is time outdoors. So every day you should spend at least one hour outside if you can. Okay, so like this is the biggest problem that I see with the gaming generation is like we live in a cube, right? Especially if we're like really hardcore gamers or like it doesn't even be a hardcore gamer, especially during COVID. We wake up. We stay indoors. We let's say we shower. Let's say I'm like a generally healthy person during COVID, right? I wake up. I shower. I eat some breakfast. I sit down. I work for eight hours remotely. I take a break. I watch some TV while I have a late lunch, right? Because like I'm not going to just sit there and eat my food. I'm going to have some kind of technology while I'm doing it. I'm going to like watch something or listen to something or whatever. And then I'm going to like log on with my friends and I'm going to game for a couple of hours. Then I'm going to wrap up the day with some Netflix and then watch YouTube videos on my phone before I go to sleep, right? So I've just been in this damn cube the whole time. So I have no outdoor stuff. So then what what does that mean for my sleep? How does my body know that it's bedtime? It has no idea. How does it know when it's a daytime? It has no idea. It's not seeing any horizons, which is really important actually for your eyes and stuff like that too. It's not getting exposed to a large amount of light, right? It's just the same damn even walls, even windows. Maybe you get a little bit of light, even light from our computer screen. So it's getting the same stimulus all day long and all night long. There isn't a difference in the kind of stimulus it gets. So it gets it's it gets confused from a circadian rhythm. So I know it's kind of weird, but go outside during the day and at dusk if you can. This is ideal. This is huge. Okay. So this will start using a lot of good like light information like your body. You'll be sending all kinds of signals to your body and there are all kinds of mechanisms I haven't even touched on. So for example, you will produce vitamin D, which in turn will decrease your depression, which in turn will move you in this direction. Cool, right? So spend some time outdoors. Next thing, structured bedtime routine. We are creatures of habit. Our brain likes habit. Who here has to concentrate every time they brush their teeth? No, you don't need to concentrate anymore. Your brain is formed a habit. Help your habit work for you. Okay, so develop a bedtime routine. So for two hours before bed, no screens. This is so hard. Oh my god, Dr. K. How am I supposed to not use a screen before bed? It's impossible. Couple of really good rules. No phones in bed. Also applies to tablets, switches, laptops, just no phones in bed, right? That's hard, Dr. K. I understand that it's hard. It's just you need to decide what do you prefer? Do you, would you rather have your phone in bed or would you rather have a good night's sleep? You have a choice. I'm not saying you have to do it. I'm just saying if you want a good night's sleep, you start with no phones in bed. This is where I'm going to help you all out a little bit. I'm not going to just leave you with that decision all on your own. So I think this is where the biggest challenge that we face is that for the two hours before bed, we don't know what to do, right? It's like if I'm not on my phone, because if you think about like when do you pull out your phone, you pull out your phone during periods of boredom or transitions. When there's nothing else going on, you pull out your phone. If you're in a transition point, you pull out your phone. If you're waiting for your friend to pick you up and they're going to be there in five minutes and you're ready, what are you going to do in those five minutes? You're going to pull out your damn phone, right? You're not going to sit there. You're going to pull out your phone, toilets, transitions, right? That's when we use our phone. The problem is that once you start scrolling, it's going to inhibit your melatonin production, right? So screens inhibit melatonin and are also going to activate mental function. So this is what I want you all to understand about your brain. You know how you don't cook food and put it straight into the fridge? What do you do with food before you stick it in the fridge? You got to let it come to room temp. You got to let it cool down. So your brain needs a cool down time. So that doesn't mean be inactive. That means don't do some kind of hyper stimulating dopaminergic activity. Let it come to room temperature before you put it to sleep. That's what you need to do with your brain. So screens are really, really problematic because the reason they're so damn addictive and this is the way that they're designed is to stimulate the brain and keep it engaged. So it's the very opposite. It's like all these apps and stuff are like microwaves for your brain. They're just going to heat it up. If you browse Reddit, for example, or Twitter, there's going to be a lot of sexist, political, memish, anti-Blizzard, anti-EA, anti-work, anti-climate change, anti-liberal, anti-FA. There's going to be some kind of crap that's going to amp you up. I'm not trying to place a value judgment on any of it. I'm not saying any of it is right or wrong. That's for other people to decide. I'm ignorant to that stuff. All I'm saying is that all that stuff is going to have you being activated. This is why you need to stay away from screens. Then the question is, okay, Dr. K, what should I do instead of screens? This is beautiful. This is the most OP move. All of the crap that you should be doing anyway. If you procrastinate to do things because you're XYZ, that is the stuff that you should do for two hours before bed. I like to best one to start with for me is grocery shopping. I will go grocery shopping at like 9 p.m. at night. It gets me out of the house. I'm away from a screen. I do my grocery shopping. Then I've got groceries for tomorrow. That's a win. I also clean before bed. Really fantastic. Cleans out the mind. Should be. This is in Dr. K's guide, which in turn will reduce your stress, reduce your anxiety, and target falling asleep. Easy champ. Cleaning. You have the bonus of having clean dishes. You have the bonus of not having a messy place. We're going to take this goal that you have set for yourself and it's very hard for you to do. We're going to leverage that goal to help you sleep every single day. You can also do things like sort through the mail. I do all kinds of random stuff. Exercise, yoga, meditation. Then some people will say, but I thought you weren't supposed to exercise before bed. That's where like, yeah, generally speaking, if you look at population studies, it is more advantageous to exercise earlier in the day for the average person. But if you're like me, you can exercise before bed. Then if you do like two hours before bed, you feel super tired and like really good at night and it's very easy to sleep. You can also do something like take a bath. There's some physiologic stuff here where I'm just trying to figure out if I want to go into this. When you take a hot bath, you get a lot of peripheral vasodilation. Then after the bath, you get alterations in blood vessels that make you sleepy. I'm not going to go into more detail, but not here, but there's a lot that goes on there. You can use like physiology there too. Other things that you can do. If you're bored, I'd say audio stuff is totally fine. Physical books, totally fine. Be careful about what you read, but generally speaking, I'll listen to spirituality lectures and podcasts and stuff that's interesting and that I'm glad the next day that I learned something, but it's not so intellectually stimulating. I would not read a horror novel before bed unless that works for you. It may work for you, but all that stuff that you want to learn, you want to read more non-fiction, you want to learn more about stoicism, get yourself an audiobook and just listen to it in bed. We'll talk a little bit about meditation in a second. Last thing is food. Here's our tip for eating. Here's the diet that I would recommend for the average person who wants to use that insulin spike in their favor. I'd say start breakfast with something like oatmeal, high fiber, high satiety, low calorie food. If you don't do this, you will have a huge lunch. We don't want a huge lunch. We want some kind of high fiber, high satiety pile of stuff in your stomach so that you feel kind of full. You need to eat a preemptive lunch. If you wait too long, this calorie deficit, which you've already built up, is going to cause you to crave really unhealthy food. You want to have a gigantic pile of oatmeal at 8 a.m. with berries. Then you want to fix yourself some kind of sandwich or something even before you get hungry, like 11.30. Eat a sandwich or something. Not too calorie dense, but you want to avoid being super, super hungry at noon. You've got to eat early. Then what's going to happen when evening rolls around, like when 6 p.m., 7 p.m. rolls around, you're going to be famished because you're like kind of calorie deficit for the day. Then I want you to eat whatever the hell you want. Go to town on the burrito. Hit that food coma. Veg out for a little bit. Go through your bedtime routine and then just pass the fuck out. This is really, really, really important. There's an important point. A lot of people say, I do bodybuilding. What about this? What about gaining weight? It takes about three days to reset your sleep schedule. All this stuff, you could start to adjust these things, but to reset your sleep schedule, all it takes is three days, generally speaking. It's okay to do this for three days and then you can adopt healthier eating habits afterward because then you've got other stuff going for you. Now your circadian rhythm, after three days your circadian rhythm is adjusted. It's going to be easy for you to fall asleep at 10 p.m. So you don't need the burrito to get you into the coma. At that point, this stuff will be enough. These are general tips for sleep. Okay. Other things to remember. Last point that I'll share is that generally speaking, it is easier to wake up when you're tired than it is to go to bed when you're not. This may not apply to some of y'all. If you have a problem with this phase of sleep, maybe this is not true for you. But generally speaking, I think physiologically, it's easier to wake up in the middle of the night if your house is on fire than it is to go to sleep if you're fully awake. So we have more mechanisms that can increase wakefulness than we do that can increase sleepiness. So if you want to reset your sleep schedule, what it takes is three days of waking up on time. And if you guys just want one tip bit of advice, being a zombie. You will be a zombie. Don't drink caffeine. You're just going to be a zombie all day long. You're going to feel terrible. You're not going to be able to do anything. You're going to be unproductive. You're going to be kind of moody, irritable. Like it's just going to feel like you're you're like lagging in real life. You're like playing real life on ping. That's what it's going to feel like. And then sleep will feel like a relief. Next day, you're going to wake up. You're going to be a zombie. You're going to do that three days in a row. By the end of it, you'll feel amazing. You'll have detoxed off of caffeine. You may have even detoxed off of some of that dope. And your sleep, your circadian rhythm will be reset and then you'll be like golden. Okay, you just have to understand that you have to like, you're going to be a zombie for a while. Okay, so at this point, we're an hour and a half in and I have not even gotten to the three specifics. So I think we're going to save that for another day. So what we'll have maybe next time is. And why? Yeah, you're going to get to spend more time in bed because your sleep is going to be Okay, we can do it today. That means that's all we're gonna do today. I gotta I gotta check Okay today, okay So good, okay Okay finished today that's all we're gonna do today then because I did what I normally do so we're like this is like dude, this is a 90-minute lecture Folks you all get that like we're already 90 minutes in and by the way, I've done like 12 hour seminars on sleep So there's just we're just scratching the surface like there's so much to understand about this That's all applicable to it's not just like academic Like here's what we like there's like there's so many different things. So one tip that I we haven't even talked about which is huge even talked about which is huge is you remember this this REM cycle business right so you have you have sleep cycles where you start here and then you end here so if you wake up here you'll feel groggy but if you wake up here you'll feel rested and this is if you for example sleep for two hours and wake up here you will feel rested if you sleep for eight hours and wake up here you'll feel groggy so understanding where you are in your sleep cycle when you wake up is critical so this is why you know sometimes you take a nap and like you wake up feeling way more tired than when you went to bed and sometimes you take a nap and it's like you feel amazing and you're like wait but why is that like I only slept for half an hour or 45 minutes and I feel amazing and other times it's like I slept for three hours and I feel like a zombie like I don't understand what's going on it's because of when you wake up during this cycle and so even understanding things to that specificity will control how easy it is to wake up because you have to wake up at the right time of your sleep cycle okay okay okay strategies all right so difficulty falling asleep so the first thing to understand is that according to Ayurveda which by the way I know we've had some people who are skeptical of Ayurveda which is totally fine I'm still amalgamating different kinds of evidence that I will present to you all and hopefully you all will be convinced I am I'm convinced that Ayurveda is very helpful from a clinical standpoint precisely because of things like this so if you guys like think this is pretty cool and no one else talks about it this way this kind of thinking essentially comes from Ayurveda this idea that insomnia is not homogeneous and affects different people in different ways is like a fundamentally Ayurvedic concept and you may say but that's a fundamentally human concept but that's not how western medicine really thinks about it right because it's a medical doctor will diagnose you with insomnia like they'll just diagnose you with that and they'll kind of like be done with it right so falling asleep first of all to understand from an Ayurvedic perspective is a Pitta problem and if you guys don't understand what that means go watch Dr. K's guide and go look at the Ayurveda stuff because there's like two or three hours about that okay so it's a Pitta imbalance so Pithas their minds are very active their minds are like fire they can't let things go they have trouble cooling down before we put the food in the fridge right and so they have difficulty falling asleep they will hold on oftentimes to a few thoughts and these thoughts prevent them from sleeping okay so if you have trouble falling asleep first thing to understand is that it may be a Pitta issue and if you balance your Pitta it should get better we'll talk a little bit more about that in a second second thing you should ask yourself is if you're having trouble staying asleep here's the next question you should ask yourself have I been awake for 16 hours if the answer to that question is no your goal tomorrow is to go to sleep at the same time and have that turn that question into a yes okay so the solution to that is wake up earlier right because remember your metabolic substrates haven't built up to help you fall asleep if you haven't been awake for 16 hours so your answer is to wake up earlier by the way you may be a zombie gg just let your circadian rhythm balance after three days it's going to be tough right but this is what you're going to need to do the good news is even after one day you may start to feel a little bit better okay so the next thing to think a little bit about is your let me just make sure okay yeah so next thing to think about is does your body know it is time to sleep and you may ask me Dr. K how does my body know whether it is time to sleep or not and this is where like we talked about this right what are the ways in which your body knows that it's been time to sleep so we've talked about being awake for 16 hours what is your light exposure been like have you been stuck in a room all day because if the answer to that question is yes your body is really confused what's your technology used like and if your body is like oh if you've been like sitting in a room without windows for the last 16 hours and there's been a constant stream of like computer monitor light or tv screen light on you then your body has no idea it's time to sleep and it's going to get confused it's going to be hard to fall asleep okay next thing is stress and anxiety do you have stress do you have anxiety what are you stressed out about what are you anxious about this is where things get a little bit complicated so you can you know depending on how bad things are you can work with a therapist you can work with a coach you can also just like introspect process we touch on this all through the rest of our stuff so there's a lot of stuff about this in Dr. K's guide but I can't go into like how to fix stress or anxiety like in five minutes right it's just not that simple but the truth is that if you're having trouble falling asleep and you're in a stressful state that has high cortisol this is going to be activating your RAF and it's going to make it hard for you to fall asleep and make you a light sleeper so you have to deal with this stuff there are a couple of other specific practices so the meditative rewind practice which is in the guide is very effective for this yoga nidra is also very effective for this both those are in the guide we're going to teach you guys a different meditation today okay so you have to deal with your stress and anxiety and then the last thing is diet optimization for this so remember since it's a bit the problem what we really want to do is focus on like cooling kind of heavy foods so you know if you eat yogurt with fruit drizzle maple syrup before bed this should be your dessert right we're going to get some good protein in there some good antioxidants get some vitamin c get some other stuff fiber right it's going to taste yummy because there's a little bit of maple syrup in there now technically ayurveda says you shouldn't mix fruit and yogurt you shouldn't mix dairy and fruit but we'll step away for that for a second and if eating them together causes you a lot of indigestion and interferes with your sleep then don't do it but i think this is like a really good kind of dietary thing that you can have it'll have like some density to it it'll be like somewhat satisfying and it'll actually be quite healthy okay so this is what to do if you have trouble falling asleep okay so let's recap it's a bit the imbalance so your mind will be holding on to a few thoughts and keeping you from sleeping so there are techniques and stuff around that as well but you know the the main thing is going to be first of all have you been awake for 16 hours second thing is going to be to make sure that your body knows that it's time to sleep and how does the body know that it's time to sleep it has to do with your light exposure for the day and your technology exposure for the day third thing to think a little bit about is just your stress and anxiety level and like as long as those are present you have to understand that that is going to lead to a clinical impact physiologic impact on your sleep so you can try to do all kinds of stuff take supplements or whatever but if you really want to be like conquer insomnia and sleep like a baby this must be dealt with and oh my goodness dr k that means that i can't fix it tonight yes that is correct unfortunately you cannot fix sleep necessarily in one day sometimes it takes weeks if not months the upside is that once you learn how to do this and you process these problems you could be sleeping like a baby for the next five years right and this is like this is the problem with sort of like the the supplement industry is like they're not going to tell you that right like they're like everyone out there is looking for an easy fix to sleep and so the market provides them with the illusion of an easy fix that's scientifically backed for good reason and then people are just like then the problem propagates right and it's because all y'all want an easy solution they're like i just want to sleep tonight and the truth is that if you want to consistently have good sleep day after day after day after day it's not going to be an easy fix unless you've got sleep apnea in which case get yourself a sleep app it'll sleep happen it'll revolutionize your life okay all right first thing to sleep this is a vata imbalance right so restlessness vata problems this is also where we see things like ptsd manifest right so you're going to get nightmares so the other way to think about it is nightmares will not affect falling asleep or waking up but they will affect the sleep in the middle so there's like early sleep mid sleep late sleep okay so key things to start with what's your caffeine intake also true for falling asleep especially if you have had caffeine so other vata things to be aware of is technology use so this isn't just technology use two hours before bed although that'll definitely engage the melatonin circuits and things like that but technology use throughout the day so if you just overall reduce your technology use and this is especially phone usage in transition points it will help you sleep i know it sounds crazy um so this is another really important thing is routine before bed so you really want to not so the the how can i say this so for people who have trouble falling asleep sometimes what ends up happening is that they basically the fatigue gets so bad that it overcomes their inability to fall asleep right and if you fall asleep that way your sleep is going to be disturbed because your mind is not ready for sleep it's like it doesn't want to sleep but the fatigue overpowers it and then you're kind of like left with a very unrestful sleep afterward if that makes sense so what you want to do is is really be careful about the routine before bed in the cool down period because you want to let your body prepare for a long period of rest so cool down period becomes really really important a couple of other tips here so weighted blanket can be super super op so sometimes vata is really really like weighted blankets if you'll also have anxiety so there have been clinical studies that show that weighted blankets will actually help people with anxiety sleep better so if you want to use some device or tool to help you sleep stays asleep another interesting question that i'll sometimes ask people when i'm deciding whether to recommend a weighted blanket is i will ask them when you were a baby did you need to be tightly swaddled to sleep and so they'll ask their parents and what i've anecdotal what i've seen an anecdotal correlation with like how swaddled you needed to be to sleep properly and how much you'll respond to weighted blanket there's all kinds of physiologic mechanisms psychological mechanisms things like that that are involved with weighted blankets so you can even ask your parents did i need to be like tightly swaddled or what uh okay so yeah so temperature control is also really important for the maintenance of sleep so you may need to adjust your temperature yeah the other thing you can do to fall asleep so we mentioned a couple of these things like audio books and stuff like that okay next thing is tired in the am okay so if you're tired in the morning this is a kaffa imbalance or difficulty waking up okay so you want to use kaffa alleviating diets right so you want to eat food that is light dry and sour right the other way to kind of think about that is if you eat lightly the night before we're gonna let's let's kind of reverse the process and think about physiology so if i don't have a burrito before bed what's gonna happen right so i so if i'm not eating what's gonna happen right so i so if i have a burrito before bed let's just look at the burrito if i eat a burrito my blood sugar so blood sugar is going to be white is going to go up and then fall over the course of the night okay and then when i i'm going to make something called glycogen which is my sugar stores so my sugar stores will also like be high until i'm low right and so like at this point when i wake up let's say this is 8 a.m i'm gonna have a lot of glycogen so i'm not gonna be starving at all so if i eat lightly instead what's gonna happen let's say i eat lightly and then i don't have any insulin spike so let's take the non-burrito let's say light meal before bed my blood sugar basically stays at the new blood the new glucose that i'm adding to the system stays low and my my glycogen which is high is going to decrease over the course of the night and then at 8 a.m i'm a hungry and so it'll be easier to wake up if you eat lightly right so glycogen stores last for about eight hours and so eight hours after your glycogen starts being broken down you will start to feel hungry and you want to use that hunger to help yourself wake up so other tips that you want to do okay so eat lightly ideally not at all before bed okay next thing that you want to do no blinds so try to sleep in a room that gets sunlight so i don't know if you all have ever had this annoying experience have you ever had like an experience where the sun is right in your eyes when you're trying to sleep because of like some place that you're sleeping it's super super uncomfortable so no blinds let that sunlight hit you in the face and wake you up sun wakes you up let it wake you up that's what it's there for it's annoying in your eyes right and so it's kind of interesting because just think about this for a second your eyes could have evolved to be thicker you'll get that your eyes could have evolved to be blackout curtains that are completely able to black out the sun but they evolve to be a certain degree of transparency so that your body knows when to wake up when the sunlight is in your eyes that's the way that they were made it's supposed to wake you up and so when the sunlight flashes in your eyes right you don't look at the sun just keep keep your eyes closed it'll turn off melatonin production and you'll start to wake up it's exactly like how it's supposed to happen and if you use blackout curtains or you're in a room with no natural sunlight it's gonna be hard to wake up okay um so other thing is that i know it's kind of kind of weird but you want to try to wake up early so you can go to bed early which in turn means that you're you'll start to reduce your adenosine at let's say 9 p.m which will in turn allow you to wake up very naturally because then your metabolic like triggers are also going to be active and they'll help you wake up at like five in the morning other other tip this is a key key key key key tip if you are having trouble waking up in the morning so let's say you have trouble at 7 a.m you don't need to sleep in you need to wake up earlier so try to wake up at 5 a.m you will be amazed some percentage of you will find it way easier to wake up at 5 a.m than you will at 7 a.m so there's circadian rhythm factors here there's also sleep cycle factors here right when i say sleep cycle factors i'm talking about this stuff where's the sleep cycle and yeah right so like 8 a.m 8 a.m maybe here and like 5 a.m maybe here right between your sleep cycles where it's easy to wake up so i know it's kind of weird because people were asking how do you wake up in between your cycles and so i'm going to show you how to in between your cycles and some of it is circadian so it's like hard like it's very individualized but oftentimes if you have trouble waking up in the morning the solution is to not sleep in but actually try to wake up earlier and you will be stunned at how easy it is to wake up at 5 a.m instead of 7 a.m there's also a lot of evolutionary biology about this which is that so if we look at like for example visual acuity is highest for mammals at dawn and dusk and why is that it's because we're designed to be awake so you have millions or billions of your hundreds of millions of years of evolution that is trying to get you up at like five in the morning around the time of dawn and so i would adjust your psyche like like try to wake up even earlier like if you have if you if you keep on hitting the snooze button at 7 a.m try waking up at five you'll be very very surprised okay and so that's what i would recommend for waking up okay if you have difficulty waking up all right to wrap up we're going to do a meditation the reason we're going to do this meditation is so let me think about how to say this so this is going to be a different kind of meditation but i want it to be something that can help you fall asleep and can be done easily if you wake up in the middle of the night so the first thing is we have three really really good meditations for sleep in dr k's guide we're not going to go into those today because they're there and that's why they're there right so yoga nidra medical rewind i mean uh meditation meditation meditative rewind practice and catching the moment of sleep i think are three really really good meditations catching the moment of sleep meditation is really good for someone who has a very inquisitive active mind and needs to focus it before bed and yoga nidra is like generally good for cool downing period and meditative rewind practice is really really good for people who have like accumulated a lot of emotion or had a rough day so what i'm going to teach you all today is actually a meditative practice let me think about how to say this around darkness okay so this is going to fall into the category of being like meditations about the self too meditations kind of around shunya but it's a meditation that you can do basically in the dark and so essentially what we're going to do i'm going to walk you all through it but you can do this with your eyes open if it's very dark outside or you can do it with your eyes closed and we're going to kind of notice the limit how can i say this we're actually going to notice the lack of limit of the darkness that we experience on the inside so if i close my eyes i'm going to have a sense of space which is determined by my physical body but in my mind i'm going to have blackness but if you really pay attention it's going to you're going to think originally that the darkness is limited or that the darkness starts somewhere or ends somewhere but really what you're going to do is start to realize that what you experience is darkness has no actual limits and it extends forever which is sort of terrifying and sort of cool and then who are you in that business it's kind of hard to describe but you'll hopefully you'll get it okay and so this is something that you can also kind of swim into in the middle of the night if you wake up okay so it sounds terrifying but that's because you haven't experienced it it's actually incredibly peaceful all right so we're going to start by sitting up straight and closing our eyes i gotta drink something also spill okay okay let's just kind of breathe in and out for me i need to cool down i've been talking a lot for those of you who have been listening maybe you're feeling kind of sluggish so let the breath start by balancing where you are if you feel sluggish let the breath energize you big deep inhalation and breathe out let it energize you and out and out third breath big deep breath you may feel a little bit light-headed or energized but certainly not sluggish not weighed down and on the flip side if you feel like you need to calm down what we're going to do is brief inhalation and really stretch out that exhalation so breathe in and breathe out so maybe two three second inhalation seven eight nine second exhalation another relatively quick inhalation slow slow exhalation and now let your breath guide you it will turn you into the direction that you need to go you may notice a relatively even deep slow breath now and so we're going to sit in that for about a minute if you feel like you might get distracted you can just appreciate how altering the breath artificially leads to an equilibration or the relationship between your breath and your mind try to notice the nuances or subtleties the feeling of the breath as it is in in you right now as it is in in you right now so and now i want you to notice the blackness of your mind you may kind of notice that visually you are seeing black and you may begin by being anchored to your body you may notice the limits of your body in space you may notice that the blackness that you see is on your eyelids alone and now start to move beyond your eyelids and notice that the black extends beyond them if you are anchored too much in the body then notice the edge of your knees the top of your head and notice how you can feel nothing beyond that now follow that nothingness out of space so now follow that nothingness out as far as it'll go and notice how tiny you truly are how small your body feels in the vast emptiness and see how even within you within the limits of your body there is blackness it's almost as if the border of your body is a paper thin screen between the void within you and the never-ending void outside of you and now sit in one of those two places and begin to realize that they are one and the same that the quality of the emptiness within you is the same as the quality of the emptiness beyond your body and take all of your cares and worries your concerns and your fears your regrets and your anxieties and notice how tiny they are how insignificant compared to the vast beyond and the well within you a deep deep well of blackness and notice yourself in this moment almost floating the energy suffusing your body and find peace swim in the ocean of nothing let it wash over you sweeping all of your worries away and now tell yourself it is time to sleep or time to work or time to wake up and from this place you can send an intention towards your conscious mind whatever it is and that when you break from this place which is already fading notice how it's fading already that this lingering thought will be there and whatever intention you have set yourself will come to be take a deep breath and return yourself to the world or drift yourself to sleep whatever you choose and come on back you