 Why are so many Americans quitting their jobs? I don't know if this is an America thing, by the way. If it is, sorry Europeans and other East Asians, Southeast Asians, other people, South Americans. I don't know that we have a huge, you know, following in Africa, but people outside of America, let's say. So there are a bunch of people who are quitting their jobs and the Antework subreddit is one of the fastest growing subreddits. Right here. On Reddit. And so I wanted to talk a little bit about why so many people seem to be quitting their jobs and kind of what's going on there. So to try to understand from a scientific perspective, I mean sort of like a theoretical scientific perspective. What can we understand from things like the theory of evolution? What can we understand about large scale psychological trends? And what can we understand about psychology that propagates this kind of thing that makes it actually worse? And so we're just going to sort of comment on it. It's going to be kind of like just Dr. K's thoughts about this thing. OK, so the first thing that I want to say is that, like I mentioned earlier, this is not something that I'm an expert in. It's not something that I'm going to be citing sources or things like that, citing literature. It's just sort of like my take on why people are quitting so much. OK, so the first thing is that there seems to be an unprecedented amount of people quitting their jobs and doing so in a spectacular and social media karma farming sort of way. So people will post on to anti-work about, oh, like my boss told me to like work, come in on Saturday and canceled my vacation and canceled Christmas. So I said, screw you. And I quit. And so they posted on the Internet. It gets a bunch of karma. And then people post about it again and again and again and again. And so I thought I'd talk a little bit about like why this is happening now, like what forces led up to this and sort of understanding the psychology behind it. So the first is that I think that the Internet has become one of the great equalizers. So generally speaking, what causes things to change are when there are major humanity, human creations that will tend to level the playing field between like unequal groups of people. And generally speaking, I think the Internet is like the third biggest thing that has been discovered. So the two that I'd say come before this, the first is the printing press. Right. So when when reading and information became more widely available, we started to see a drastic change within society. The second big thing that seemed to equalize a lot of stuff was the invention of gunpowder. So if you look at things like the American Revolution and like feudal societies, you know, in the past, what it used to be that if you were stronger and had a sword like you would, you could kill other people. And so there was like a big disparity in terms of power and like physical strength. Over time, what seemed to happen is with the invention of like gunpowder in the pistol, you have people that are able to exert a lot more power against like people who were traditionally more powerful. So you have things like the American Revolution and stuff like that. But I think guns have been another huge equalizer. And I think the third great equalizer, and there may be many more before this. I'm not a historian. But I'd say that the Internet is a huge equalizer and people have, I think, not really understood the impact of what the dissemination of information has truly had on our society. So 50 years ago, if you lived in a small town and you had some crappy job, like that was it. Right. Like you're you looked around at your options and you were not aware of like what your other options were. You were vaguely aware that other jobs existed elsewhere. But your ability to compare yourself to other people and to understand what else was out there was like quite, quite narrow. And we talk about some of the evils of social media and information dissemination, FOMO, and things like that on this channel. You know, we talk about overly comparing and the weaknesses of overly comparing. We talk about social media and the dangers of social media in terms of making people feel like they're left out and things like that. But I think one of the things that it's important to remember is that social media, just like video games, are tools and that tools can be used for good or for ill. And so one of the things that started to happen with the advent of the Internet is people have started to realize that there's like better things out there. Right. So there's like a greater awareness in general. That the world doesn't have to be as crappy as your situation is. And I think this acknowledgement that there are better options out there has been absolutely devastating for certain employers. So this is also where I'm going to kind of jump ahead here for a second. But if we look at why things have gotten so bad, I would say in short, employers have had no negative selection pressure against poor practices. So if I'm, you know, if I own, let's say, a major serial manufacturing company and people are unhappy, I haven't really had any need to make my employees happy. Right. I've been able to say because there hasn't been a selection pressure or consequence. You guys can go screw yourselves. Right. So I've been able to say that thus far. And so we've had things like the creation of unions, which have been designed to balance corporate power and all that stuff is fantastic. I'm not going to go down that road, but I think there's another huge balancing issue here, which is like the Internet, because now we're beginning to see huge movements towards equality. So you see these things like the Arab Spring. You see these things where people are now aware that other options exist. Right. So the first thing that's happened is that the Internet has sort of started to equalize the playing field in terms of removing ignorance. And so this is another thing that corporations have benefited a lot from, which is like, you know, preying essentially on ignorance. So like if my workers don't know what else is out there, I can give them crappy things. So in general, like I think, for example, the quality of food has thankfully in restaurants, like generally speaking, improved over the course of my life. And why is that? It's because now I have so much access to information about where I can get food and where there's good food and where there is bad food. As a result, there were a lot of crappy restaurants that existed when I grew up that I didn't realize that I could drive 10 minutes away further and find a really good restaurant. That was amazing. It was all like word of mouth. But with the advent of Internet sharing information, I've been able to find good restaurants as restaurants. As we sort of discover there are better restaurants and worse restaurants, like better companies and worse companies, people have started gravitating towards the better companies and moving away from the worst companies. So I think a lot of corporations have continued to exist very profitably, basically preying on the ignorance of their employees and their employees not realizing what else is out there. So there are a couple of other things that have happened recently, and I think the biggest one is COVID. So I think COVID has been a great example of the blindfold coming off. So for a long time, companies have sort of assumed or believed or taught their employees to believe that particular things were true. The first is that you have to be at the office to work. Right. And so what companies would do is like there was there's so much crap that people had to put up with, like commuting is the top of the list. Right. We're like you had to commute like a commute was a given. And so when looking at a job, I even remember when when I got my first place in Boston or not just first place, every single place I had in Boston, one of the main considerations I had when I was like renting an apartment was what is my commute look like? What does the commute look like? What does the commute look like? Because people were spending half an hour or up to an hour. I mean, depending on where you live and what your situation is, or five minutes if you're super lucky, you know, people would spend at anywhere from five minutes to two hours of their life per day commuting to and from work. And so what's happened with COVID is we sort of started to realize, oh, you actually don't need to commute to work. Like you don't actually have to be in the office. And this was a huge like revelation for a lot of people. Right. So the other thing that corporations tended to take advantage of was almost like geographical predation where like, you know, in the past, your job options were restricted by your geography. So if I live in like Beaumont, Texas, or if I live in like some small town in Alabama, or, you know, if I live in some small town in India, my only options for work were like what was like available around me. And so with the advent of the Internet, and especially with COVID and work from home, you're no longer geographically restricted. So there used to be some companies that like, I don't know if you guys have ever heard of a company town where there's like one major employer, and most of the people work for that employer and people don't have a lot of choice. They don't have a lot of ability to like laterally move or go to other companies. And with the advent of COVID and everything moving online, suddenly now corporations are no longer able to engage in like essentially geographical predation. Right. So like now, if I don't like the job that I have in, you know, Mobile, Alabama, I can go and apply for a job in Canada. Right. So I can actually like work in a different country. I can work in a different part of the state. This is something that corporations have loved doing for a long time until it starts to hurt them, which is like when there was all this concern about, you know, shipping jobs overseas or outsourcing to places like India and China. And companies have been thrilled to do that. Thus far, we've like moved manufacturing over to China. We've moved manufacturing over to India and people have lost their jobs here. And like corporations have been like, great, like I can move elsewhere. I don't actually have to employ the people here. And now what's happening is the reverse. Right. So where employees are starting to realize, I actually don't have to work for this crap job with you. I can actually work remotely at this place that's somewhere else. And so like this has been a huge thing that that covid has sort of unveiled. And I think companies are now reeling from it. Next thing that that covid is revealed to people is what they need to survive. So there used to be a huge like idea about what it was, what was required for like survival, success and happiness in life. Right. This is the idea of the grind. People are like grinding left and right. And it's like, I'm going to grind. I'm going to work hard. I'm going to become successful. I'm going to make more money and then I can retire at the age of 65. I'm going to commute today, two hours of my life every day to work nine hours a day. So it's going to be an 11 hour commitment per day. I'm going to sleep for eight hours, which gives me like two hours a day of recreation or whatever. I'm going to do this for about 40 years and I'm going to retire and I'm going to buy a condo somewhere where it's warm and where there's a beach and I'm going to enjoy the rest of my life. And this was accepted. This was just sort of like what people used to be OK with. And there's sort of this idea that the harder you work, the more successful you're going to be. And then essentially what the corporations did is took all the hardworking people and predated them to extinction. And so they essentially like there's this idea that you have to grind really hard and then you'll be happy at the end. And what tends to happen instead, like during Covid, is people started to realize like what is the value of money? What is the value of my time? What do I actually need to survive? And what I think what people really discovered is that they don't need money nearly as much as they thought they did. And that an extra five thousand dollars a year or ten thousand dollars a year is not worth an extra 15 hours a week. And so as as blind as Covid has taken the blindfold off, a lot of people have started to re question their priorities and what they're willing to sacrifice. So just kind of stepping into evolutionary theory for a second. So I think that basically like Covid has put a selection pressure on jobs. Right. So this is where like before these behaviors and practices by companies went on unchecked because there was no consequence in the environment. You know, the theory of evolution says survival of the fittest. And since companies were able to get away with that sort of thing, they did get away with it because there was no consequence for them. And now what I think corporations are really discovering is that there is actually a selection pressure, which is what's happening. Right. So workers en masse are deciding to select for a particular kind of job and select against another kind of job. And this is where a lot of people are starting to get really upset. And they're saying there's a labor shortage. There is not a labor shortage. There is a wage shortage. Right. The labor is there. It's just it doesn't want to work your crappy job, which you've been able to propagate for a long time and haven't had to keep up to snuff because like there's been no selection pressure against it. Right. So these companies have become like bloated, profit driven. And I'm not like a leftist, by the way. I'm just saying that if there's no like selection pressure against something, it's going to become bloated and like overblown and like, you know, the wealth inequality is increasing and people are just not going to put up with it anymore. And so what we're sort of seeing, there's some really sort of simple evidence. I'm going to draw a very big correlation here, but that basically if you want to like play a game with someone, you have to win, let them win at least 30 percent of the time. So if you look at like play behavior amongst animals, and even if you think about like your kids, for example, like you've got to let them win some of the time. Right. It's like a 30 70 swing. If they lose more than 70 percent of the time, they're going to stop playing. If they win 70 percent of the time, they're going to more significantly more than 70 percent of the time. They're going to stop playing. So you even think about the way that video games are designed. Video games are not designed to be like 100 percent victory all the time. Right. They sort of are, but they give you like false starts. You have to wipe on a boss multiple times before you down it. And so what's been happening for far too long is that like companies have been racking up W's without taking L's. And now like their karmic seed is coming to fruition where people just aren't willing to put up with it anymore. And so like now what's happening is they've created these systems that have become essentially bloated and vulnerable to this kind of, you know, like like essentially like workers hitting back. Right. And I know this is starting to sound like the Communist Manifesto, but I mean, it's really more about psychology and evolutionary theory. I'm not propagating. I'm not suggesting one is good or one is bad. It's just this is what's happened. There have been too many unchecked corporate excesses and like people are just tired of it now. So there's another huge thing that's starting to change a little bit, which I think I've worked with a lot of startups. I've worked with a lot of CEOs. I've worked with a lot of investment banks and I've started to see some interesting changes in those places. So the first example that I'll give you all is that investment working at an investment bank like Goldman Sachs or like JP Morgan or whatever used to be a very coveted job. And now what's what tends to happen is people want to do their two years at a place like Goldman and they want to GTFO as quickly as possible. So this is kind of interesting because even this is not just something that's happening at the bottom tier of like wage. Right. This is even happening very high up. You see this a lot in medicine. You see it a lot in residency where people are starting to like, you know, decide like I'm not going to become a doctor if I can become a nurse practitioner because I can make way more. I can make sure I'll make less money, but the amount of time that I have to sacrifice to become a doctor is no longer worth it. So I'm going to go the NP route. So we're seeing this at so many different levels of work. I absolutely see it in investment banking where I had a very prominent client who was struggling with turnover. And so what they sort of had this attitude that it's like, you know, you work hard and like you invest, you pay your dues. And then once you rise to the top, that's when you get to relax. And they sort of didn't understand that like people are just not having that anymore. Right. Like they're not willing to, you know, work their asses off for 20 years so that they can start flying first class at the age of 46. People are just not willing to make that trade. So in investment banking, which you're seeing is a massive exodus from banking to easier fields. So people will go be CFO. They'll go join VC. They'll go join private equity. Things aren't really that much better in those fields as well, but they tend to be better. So what we're seeing even at higher levels of education is like, you know, much more turnover and like selection pressures away from money. So another good example of this is like I've worked with a lot of people who are engineers at Google. They actually really love Google. So Google is a good example of someone who seems to be doing this right. So Google in some ways actually may pay less than what someone is able to make somewhere else. But basically every person I've ever worked with at Google loves working there. And why do they love working there? Even though they may get paid five thousand dollars less. It's because Google like sort of takes care of them. So they have a cafeteria that's open for like 18 hours a day. You can come in and work when you want to, where you want to. You don't have to come into the office if you don't want to. You can work from like 10 p.m. to like 6 a.m. So I've had people who work at Google who like will basically try to show up there for dinner before the cafeteria closes because the food is so good. They work all night. Google keeps them supplied with like energy drinks or whatever other unhealthy crap they want. And then they have breakfast in the morning. They go home. They game for a few hours and they pass out. Right. So like some employers are recognizing what people actually want and some employers aren't. And the employers that are starting to recognize that, oh, like turnover, you know, this is turnover is happening because people don't like working here and throwing money at the problem, which many of them are not even doing. Throwing money at the problem is not actually a perfect solution. So what we're starting to see, I'm seeing this a lot more in terms of like startups and young people that I advise and people that I work with is that even people who are in finance, like they don't want to just like be doing gigantic mergers and acquisitions for gigantic piles of money that the partner at their firm sees, which they see a tiny little slice up. They want to start doing work that is meaningful and impactful and like they can actually be proud of what they do. And so the pressures on businesses are changing and businesses aren't keeping up. So this is the third thing that I'm going to talk about. And here's the real psychological mistake that most employers are making. So I'm going to ask you all a question. So when there's a kid who acts out and has behavioral problems in school and you punish the kid and you tell them, hey, you're a bad kid, bad kid. What happens to that kid? Does the kid act out worse or do they get better when you punish them and you say you're a dumb kid, you're a stupid kid, you're bad behaved kid? It gets worse. So what do you think is happening when corporations are saying, oh, these workers like kids nowadays are so lazy. They're so lazy. There's a labor shortage. People just don't want to work. They just want to get their federal handout. They want to sit at home because they're lazy. They're lazy. They're so lazy. Oh, my goodness. And this is this is their karmic seed coming to fruition. Right. This is their chicken coming to hatch or rooster coming to hatch or whatever. Right. So this is where the biggest mistake that corporations have made is that they have grossly invalidated the experience of their workers. So I'll give you guys a prime example of this. And that is the field of PR. So when a company has a problem, right. So let's say like there's let's just say hypothetically that you're a game developer who has some kind of DOJ or Department of Labor investigation against you for systemic sexual discrimination. What do you do? You hire a PR firm. Right. So somewhere along the way, companies started resorting to PR to fix their problems, which is like a fundamental mistake. Right. Because it's like you're not actually fixing the problem. You're just fixing the perception of the problem. And this is a huge problem because at some point, companies stopped actually like listening to their employees and what they want and what is hard for them. And instead, what they started doing is just like focusing on PR. There's like a lack of transparency. There's a lack of understanding of what people want. And essentially, it's incredibly invalidating. So there are a lot of companies out there that are psychologically so invalidating to the experiences of their employees that the employees are just done with it. Like they're going to act out worse. And so like a good example of this is I heard recently that someone was replacing strike workers and then us trolls on the Internet. When I say us, I don't know if I'm really included in this, but trolls on the Internet decided to spam their their job application website with like fake applications. Right. Like I don't think that people realize that like that invalidation of workers experiences is going to lead to catastrophic problems. And the reason that they have been able to do this for so long is simply because there hasn't been any selection pressure for it. Right. You've been able to invalidate the experience of your employees and tell them to go screw themselves for a long time, which is exactly why it's continued. Right. There has been no selection pressure against it. And now there is a selection pressure against it. And so companies are going to have two choices. They can continue to invalidate the experience of their workers and call them lazy and etc, etc, etc. In which case, people are going to quit en masse and then your company will close. Like you'll shut your doors. Right. And then you go thinking, oh man, like my company shut down because people are lazy now and they didn't used to be lazy. It's not my fault. It's the world's fault. It has nothing to do with me. There's nothing I could have done differently. It's because workers are lazy now and government handouts and ma ma ma ma ma ma ma ma. I'm going to absolve myself of all responsibility by blaming everyone except for myself. It's the government's problem. Kids are lazy. It's video games. It's drugs. It's have you seen this Justin Bieber? Like all of this stuff. It's no one's fault but my own. Heaven forbid. What are you saying? I'm saying that I should have actually asked my employees. What can I do to get you to stay? What? That's an absurd question. Why on earth would I ever ask that? Are you suggesting that I should ask my employees? Like what? What? What would make you happy here? What are you looking for? How can we help you? How can we? How can we do a better job as employers? That's absurd. What the? There's no way I can do better. I'm perfect. Like I thought you guys understood that. Didn't we understand the boss? I'm the boss. I make more money than you. Isn't the amount of money that I make correlated with the amount of perfection that I have? And since I make more money than you do, I'm more perfect than you are. In my opinion, it matters more than yours. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I know what's right and I know what's wrong. I know what's better for you. I know what's good for you and it's nine bucks an hour. So, I don't know why you're complaining. Right? And then when problems happen, so here's like an example, right? When problems happen and I get into trouble because heaven forbid, like I change anything, that's ridiculous. Like why would I change anything? Then what happens is like when problems start to arise and there are media stories and stuff like that, instead of, I know it's kind of weird, but instead of fixing the problem and saying, hey, maybe I screwed up here, what I do is I hire a PR firm and I'm like, fix my public image. Like I am fat and I'm bloated and I'm a corporation. And what I want you to do is tailor me a nice suit so it makes it look good. And then what we're going to do is we're going to rebrand. Right? So we have like rebrand. Like I have nothing against PR. Like I think that there's important things for why perception matters because sometimes you have the flip side of the coin too, where you are doing a really good job and because of some kind of slander campaign or some kind of disgruntled people, like you have to, the battle of perception is important. I'm just saying that perception, the battle of perception should not be a substitute for actually like making improvement. Right? And this is like psychology 101 or maybe clinical medicine 101, which is like if, you know, if you have a problem in a relationship, you should try to understand the other person's perspective. Instead of trying to gaslight them through the use of PR and convincing the world that there isn't actually a problem. And somewhere along the way, corporations just started doing that and it started working really well, which is why they kept doing it because we didn't hold them accountable for it. Right? When we find out that, for example, like, you know, there's human rights stuff in China and Apple and all these kinds of stories come out and Nike is like using sweatshops and stuff like that. Did we stop purchasing Nike equipment? Did we stop buying Apple products? Did we do any of that stuff? No. Right. And so like if corporations are doing it because they've been able to get away with it because they haven't been held accountable. And now things are so they're reaching a point due to the access of information and due to, you know, people like realizing that they don't have to commute two hours to go to work every day, that the grass is actually greener on the other side. What we're starting to see is like a lot of companies are starting to suffer from that. Right. And it's kind of interesting because like there's just a lot of stuff that companies are getting bit in the ass where they were super happy when it happened the first time around. Outsourcing is one example. Another example is like automation. Right. It's interesting because, you know, when grocery stores move from human people checking you out to machines checking you out, they didn't drop prices at all. It's not like anything in the grocery store got cheaper. It's just the company made more money. And now when they're getting automated bots that are clogging their applications, I mean, their job application website with fake applications, like they seem to be crying foul when it's like companies have had no problem, you know, automating things when it screws over workers. But heaven forbid workers start automating things that screw over companies. Like, that's just unfair. The best example of this, I actually had a client who wrote a script to do his job and then like someone found out about it and they sort of fired him. And then they got like super upset. And he's like, okay, you can fire me if you want to, but you're gonna have to pay a human to do this amount instead of rewarding ingenuity. And a company actually like automating a worker automating a job instead of giving that person gigantic raise and saying, hey, is there anything else that you can automate for us, bro? They just fired him and got super upset. And it's like it goes both ways. Right. So I think what we're starting to see is essentially like a karmic seed coming to fruition. And this anti worker movement is coming is now starting to really propagate because people are aware that they don't have to put up with this crap anymore. There's actually a selection pressure that companies have become bloated because they there have not been selection pressures against them. Right. And now that there are selection pressures against them, they're starting to feel the hurt. And this is getting further propagated by the fact that when you have a problem, what instead of actually like addressing the problem and trying to fix it and listening to people's concerns, you call them lazy and blame the government. And as long as like you're doing that and then you hire a PR firm, those are the three. And if you keep on doing those three things, like you all get that on a very fundamental level, like you're not fixing the problem. You can whine about the government as much as you want to. Until you fix the problem, until you make your place a place where people actually want to work, where they feel hopefully fairly compensated, which there is a flip side to that coin, too, because human beings never feel feel fairly compensated. Right. Like you could always you always feel like you could be making more money for doing the work that you do. That's just part of human psychology. It's sort of like this. This, too, is a good example. You look at dishes that get done in a house. Right. So let's say you live with four roommates. And it always feels like they're doing the most dishes. That's just how it is. So there are there are good reasons why, you know, for example, you can't just give into what workers want, because workers may always feel like they're unjustly compensated, which is human psychology. But at some point, there's like there's some some middle ground, right, where like you don't screw them over and call them lazy and hire a PR firm. You actually listen to what they say. You do your best to fairly compensate them. And then you also recognize that maybe if people are leaving, that you're a shit boss. Maybe if people are leaving, you don't pay them enough. Maybe people are leaving like you should reconsider your work environment and that you try to do what you can to make your employees happy. But until people start doing that, they're going to keep seeing this. I'm not saying workers are right about 100 percent of things, but like it's just been way too much like there have been too many problems that get propagated and not addressed and not fixed. Or too long. So like the workers have been winning only five percent of the time. And so I think they're tired of playing the game, which is why they're quitting. Right. And thankfully, I've worked with companies who and I like it's good. So I like working with companies and then we'll talk about things like this. Right. So when I go to an investment bank and and you know, we'll talk a little bit about because you got to speak their language. So I'll ask them questions like how much does your turnover hurt you? What if you could have a place where there wasn't where your turnover number was 50 percent? They're like, oh, my God, that would be amazing. Right. And then you have to you can even talk the language of dollars and cents. So you can tell them like how much would that affect your bottom line? And they're like, oh, it would affect our bottom line like this much. How many more deals could you do a year? Oh, we could do like so many more deals a year. OK. So then like you what's the value of those deals? OK. So like why not give people more money? Like they're like, but but they don't they haven't earned it. Right. So it's like some weird concept of like haven't earned it. It's like, bro, you make 16 million dollars a year. What have you done to earn it? Right. This is something that I realized in medicine. So I was talking to a doctor and it was talking about how much money they make. And they were like, well, I've worked my ass off for like the last 16 years. I deserve to make X amount of money. I work 70 hours a week. And it's like, bro, the lady that just was in your office that got diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 45 also work 70 hours a week. And she just works worse jobs than you do. She's been working 70 hours a week for longer than you have. Earned it is is tricky. Right. And this is where from a corporate perspective, you've got to be kind of careful. Right. So like if you think about, oh, but what about the justification of that salary? Like there could be a good reason for that. So let's let's put you in charge for a second chat. Let's say you run a company with 100 million dollars that makes 100 million dollars in revenue and you have a choice. You can hire one dude for five million dollars a year or you can hire another dude for 20 million dollars a year. The upside, one guy increases your profits by 5 percent. The other guy increases your profits by 50 percent. And since that person is able to increase your profits by 50 percent, people are willing to pay him 20 million dollars. Which one are you going to hire? It's tricky. There's a flip side to that coin. Right. And so then you're willing to pay 20 million dollars. And it's a justified cost from your perspective. That's how that person is able to command the price that they're able to command. So I'm not saying that, you know, high compensation by definition is like an evil thing. I think there's an economic side to that equation, too, which I've come to understand working with like CEOs and entrepreneurs. But this is the kind of thing where, you know, when you work with an investment bank, you got to help them understand that, hey, if you keep like, I think because this is my experience, is also what I do for like a lot of our consulting, is that I believe that the happiest, healthiest employees like are the most productive. And so do what you can to make your happy, healthy employees like, you know, do what you can. And the more that you get their back, they'll have yours. And what people have been expecting for far too long is their employees to have their back and they don't see any benefit from it. You got to be a team player. You got to come in and work Christmas. What do you get for that? Nothing. So since you're the since you're the person who's the biggest doormat, you're also going to work Thanksgiving because other people are going to bitch and moan. But since you're actually a team player and you're willing to sacrifice, I'm going to have you work Thanksgiving and July 4th and New Year's. Right. And this is the way that you work your hardest employees to extinction. Right. It's not unfair. Let's be clear. It's evolutionary. You can call evolution unfair if you want to. But until you start selecting against that kind of thing, it'll continue to happen. So what people have sort of discovered if you're in the workplace is that being grumpy and asked to do extra work is can be a very good quality. Right. It can protect you in some ways, hurt you in other ways. Who is likely to get promoted to manager? The person who comes in on the four holidays of the year or the person who puts on a grumpy face? You all think chat. Who's more likely to get promoted? All right. So it's interesting. People are saying the grump. Right. So this is where it depends on the kind of boss that you have. Does the boss select for, oh, if I promote the doormat, then the grump is going to be grumpier about it and I don't want him to be grumpy about it. Or do I promote the doormat because he's a team player and the grumpy is going to be grumpy? It depends on what you've selected for. Right. So as a boss, if you've tolerated grumpy behavior, then you're going to be selecting for that kind of behavior. So it's tricky. It's very tricky. So I think that, you know, just to summarize, I think the great resignation has been a long time in coming. I think that there's been a lot of corporate invalidation of workers' experiences, and so employees are just not willing to put up with that anymore. They've started to realize that they don't have to because I'm not geographically restricted. I can work from home. And the other thing is that the exploitation is just not worth it anymore. So being forced to work all my holidays for some amount of money when the company doesn't have my back in other situations is just not worth it for me. And I think what we're seeing, and just for the record, I think there are a lot of good employers, companies, corporations out there. I've heard great things about Costco, for example. I haven't seen a single post on the Antework subreddit about Costco. It is possible to do a good job. I haven't seen a single post about the toxic culture at supergiant games, for example. So maybe there is one. Maybe there is. I don't know. But there are some situations where you see toxic—people post about toxic work cultures, but I think there are a lot of companies that are absent from that. So you know. And then there's another evolutionary thing, which is that instead of actually improving your game design or optics, what you do is just acquire the studios that make good games. And then you drive them into the ground. That's another model which has been evolutionarily supported because we as gamers don't continue buying the games once they've been acquired and they start making crap. So until there's any kind of selection pressure against it, the behavior will propagate.