 Hello. Hey man. Hi. Hey. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too. What do you go by? Uh, Ollie is fine. Ollie? Okay. How can I help you today, Ollie? Uh, I guess I had a question about relationships. Great. Let's talk about it. Mostly just about, um, a lot of times like I'm not happy in a lot of relationships, but I don't know like how to leave or how to like prioritize myself or, you know. Sure. And yeah, I just don't know why I do that. Like I know like the steps to take, like I'm like, okay, I'll just tell them, Hey, I'm not really happy. I should probably focus on myself, blah, blah, blah. But I just can't do it. Okay. Or I just like, even when the relationship's like coming to an end, I just like start panicking and I try to like fix it. I'm like, Oh no, let's try to work it out. Even though I really don't want to be in it. And, um, yeah. Okay. Can you help? Yeah. So that's, that's, uh, I'm really glad you, um, you know, came in today and are sharing this question or concern, cause I think it's a really important thing that a lot of people struggle with. So I think the way to approach situations like this, like, is to first understand what is going on inside you. So when a relationship comes is starting to come to an end, let's actually start a little bit before that. So when you say you're unhappy in a relationship, what does that mean? Um, it's like either I'm bored or I just don't really like the person that I'm with is like hurtful in a certain way or like, are doing something that's just like upsetting me or it's just, um, Can you give me an example of what's hurtful in a relationship? Um, well, I guess the, like the last person that I was with, um, I mean, they were nice and all and like, it was like a okay relationship overall, but, um, I think a lot of times she would make comments about me being like awkward or like shy and stuff. And I, it just made me like feel worse about myself. And I never really like spoke up about it. Like whenever she'd say, Oh, like, you know, I really don't like it when you don't like try to talk to people more. Okay. You walk really awkwardly and I don't know, like it kind of just like, it makes me act more awkward around her and all that stuff. Sure. And, um, yeah, I just, you know, like, but like, you know, at the time I was like, Oh yeah, it's, it's my fault. I'm the dumb ass who's awkward. You know, it's not at all you. Okay. Yeah. So whenever we had, oh, yeah, go ahead. I was just going to say like, whenever we had like conversations about like breaking things off, it would kind of just go into, um, like me saying, Oh no, I'll try to work on myself. You know, these are things that'll fix eventually in the future, blah, blah, blah. And yeah. So in those, okay. So there are a couple of things that we have to kind of like unpack here. Okay, Ali. Yeah. Let's start with like, what's in your mind when you're in this situation. So when the way you ask the question, you were like, when relationships are unhealthy for me, I don't, it was almost like you were saying, I don't have the courage to break up with them. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah, that kind of makes sense. Yeah. But I think that that's sort of a, that could be a little bit misleading because if in the moment you actually believe what they say, then it's not about courage because you actually genuinely think that you're at fault. Yeah. Right. There are two issues here. One is that you may believe that you're at fault. And so like, if you're the problem, like how does breaking up help anything? You need to fix yourself and then the relationship will be healthy. Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. And then the other option is that you're not at fault, but you have trouble like being confrontational or stating your views for some reason. Yeah. So which, and it can be a blend of both, but which one are we talking about here? Like which one do you fall into? I think it's a mix of both. I would say the latter is more like just not being able to like be confrontational and stuff. Okay. How do you feel like, so it sounds like at times when she said, oh, you know, you're awkward or you walk funny, you were like, yeah, I'm the dumbass that dot dot dot. But then when you do know that you kind of want to break up with them, what gets in the way of you telling them? I guess kind of just like, like when I think about it, I'm just like, oh, well, like, you know, if I go through with this, it's just, sorry. Sorry, I just need to like think about this for a second. I think it's just take a second to think about it. I mean, it's like a mix of like emotions. It's not just like, oh, like I don't like one is just. I don't I feel like me saying, oh, I just don't want to like make this work anymore. Sometimes it feels like, oh, it's just me being like weak, you know, like like with that person, like the issue was just like me being like a little like anxious and stuff or just awkward. I feel like me saying like, oh, like I don't want to do this anymore. Felt like, oh, like, you know, I have these problems and they're never going to go away. So why would I try to like fix them or something like that? Or just like, oh, like, you know, once I'm done, like no one else would like ever like want to be with me, blah, blah, blah, like something dramatic like that. So, yeah, so I, I understood that last part. I was a little bit confused about some. You said something about this is never going to get better. So what helped me understand that? Oh, it's just like, you know, like, you know, like me, like break, like ending the things breaking up with them or whatever would mean that like, oh, I couldn't fix my problem. You know, like I wasn't able to like find the solutions. I just gave up. Yeah. Are you concerned about how they would feel if you broke up with them? Yeah. And how do you feel? What are your concerns about their feelings? I mean, I just don't want to like hurt their feelings. So I just make them feel bad, you know. Do you feel responsible for their feelings? A bit. Yeah. Like not like, you know, like, well, if I like do something that like hurts them, I like feel really bad. It's like, oh, I should. Why did I do that? You know? Yeah. So Ali, there's something really, really dangerous you're doing here. Right. So let me just kind of try to lay this out. So one is there's a fatalistic view about yourself. Like if I break up with them, I have to fix this problem. I can't fix this problem now, so I won't be able to fix it later. I might as well stay in the relationship. And so in a weird way, what you're doing is you're sort of saying like, I don't have the control or strength because you call yourself weak to fix myself. And so so there's it's kind of interesting because it's sort of like you don't have the power to control your own life. And then your mind does something really, really dangerous, which is a lethal combination with that one. It's like a combo, which is that you do have the power to control their lives. Because if you don't break up with them, at least they'll be happy. Or if you do break up with them, they'll be sad. And that's something you can fix. So I think the reason that you have trouble in these sorts of situations is because there's like a one, two punch of I can't fix my I can't make myself happy, but I can make them happy. And so if you really think about it, it's like a logical no brainer that like, why would you, because you're, if you break up with them, it's not like you're going to be able to fix the problem anyway. So why would you hurt them if you're just going to be screwed on your own and you're going to screw them over to. Why not just stay in the relationship and at least make them happy because it's not like you're salvageable. Does that resonate at all or not so much? Yeah, I mean that that's kind of on the spot really, you know. So, so that's, that's tricky, right? Because it's like, like, this is where I want you to understand Ali, you're not stupid and you're not weak. You're actually like a caring, intelligent person. And you're just making that judgment call based on the data that you've got, which is like, I can make them happy and stay in the relationship and sacrifice my own happiness. But even if I break up with them, it's not like I'm going to be happy anyway. So there's like, it's like a no brainer of a choice. Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. Like it's not, I don't know. I'm kind of just like the way I work it in my head. Exactly. It's the way you work it in your head is like, it's just a terrible idea on all fronts to break up because breaking up is going to hurt them and it's not going to help you. So why do it? You might as well work on yourself, fix yourself in the relationship and then everything will change. So if you want to tackle that, that one, two punch of I can make their life better and I can't make mine better. Right? So those, that's the tricky thing. If you want to tackle that, you have to tackle those assumptions. So why do you believe that you can't, you know, work on yourself more? Why do you believe like, where does the belief that you're a weak person come from? Um, I guess like a mix of things. Um, I don't, I mean, I don't think I'm like entirely a weak person, but, um, I mean, a lot of times when I try to like work on myself, like I start building routines, like exercising and all that stuff, like things go well for a while. And then like, like the littlest thing happens and it kind of just sets off like a domino effect where everything just kind of fumbles down. So it's just, I just feel like, oh, like if I'm reacting so negatively to like the smallest thing, yeah, it must be weak. Ali, that's like when the power, there's a part when you start to put your life together, you have a small setback and then there's a part of your mind that says, I told you so I told you, you couldn't do it. What were you, what were you thinking Ali? That you could put your life together. How stupid can you be? I told you so better not try. And so that's the thing that you really, really have to tackle. Right? So like, where does that voice come from? Because I don't think you're a failure at all. It's just, you have a, some scar, which is S A M S K A R A. You have this, like this programming in your mind that tells you it's like the voice that was implanted in your mind that tells you that you're incapable of change. And so like, you know, you really have to dig into where that voice comes from. Do you know? Um, I think I do kinda ish. I mean, I feel like there's a lot of incidents like that. I've like, cause like, I think like I've never been like the, um, smart kid ever, you know, in school at least. And, um, I remember middle school. I took like, we, we took like, well, I grew up in, um, Iran for like background and stuff, and we had like standardized tests that would kind of evaluate your like math and like language scores and all that stuff. And it was like ranked and actually scored like really high on that. And, um, I felt pretty good about myself that day because I was like, Oh, maybe I'm not stupid, you know? And I felt like, okay, maybe I can start doing better in school. I can start focusing on myself and like all that stuff. And then the same day, um, we had like, you know, like binders in our locker rooms and stuff, and like the Dean would just check them on daily to make sure we're like organized and stuff. And he checked mine. I'm not a very organized person. So you got very upset at that. And he came to class and he threw the binder at me and started yelling at me saying I'm like a failure or whatever. And I was like, Oh, okay. I guess, I guess he has a point, you know? Well, so I think that's a, that's a very insightful story to share Ali because that's it, right? It's not just that he threw the binder at you. It's that he threw the binder on at you on the same day that you did well in the class and the standardized test. So it's like when you succeed, you know, like Elise, when you're about to succeed, Ali steps in and snatches defeat from the jaws of victory. Like you're about to win. And then like something shows up and then like teaches you puts you in your place. How dare you think you're smart Ali? Yeah. And so just notice that pattern because like, it's really challenging because as long as that pattern is there, you know, it's, it's going to be really hard because anytime you try to take a step forward, the pattern is triggered by your actual success. Like, does that make sense? No, that makes perfect sense. You don't say I told you so until you start succeeding. And that's what's like, it's like, this is OP. It's like, it's completely broken. It needs to be patched because any step forward you take, it triggers the pattern so that it's almost like, I know this is going to sound kind of weird, but when I think about patterns like this, I actually think about HIV and the problem with HIV is that it attacks the very part of your immune system that fights viruses. And so in that way, like you have this pattern in your mind that attacks the part of your mind that helps you get out of like negative emotional and mental spaces. And so this is a sort of situation where I think it's really important to recognize that you're not actually failing. It's just anytime something, anytime you start to succeed and you're actually succeeding, this pattern is going to wake up and tell you that you're failing and be aware of that and recognize that like the stronger that pattern is, oddly enough, the better you're doing because it doesn't turn on unless you're doing well. What do you think about that? Yeah, I mean, that makes sense. I mean, it's also like, I don't know if this is related or not, but it's also when I do that, right? It also activates in a way where it's like, oh, you know, you're just falling behind again. What's the point of trying? Because you're already so behind and it's stupid. But it's so... No, so it's not stupid. That's the thing that you've got to understand is you have to understand that these thoughts in your mind are coming from experience. And so as long as you treat them as stupid, you're not going to be able to overcome them. And so actually what you want to do is like recognize that in some weird way, your mind is twisting to make that not stupid. And then you have to learn how to untwist, which is sort of like there's sort of this, I told you so you're not worth a whole lot kind of like attitude. And I think as long as that attitude is there, you're going to continue getting into these situations in your relationships. And to really unpack that attitude, you've got two or three options. One is to recognize the attitude as it arises and try to be really objective in those moments about, okay, my mind is telling me I told you so. My mind is telling me that I'm not going to do anything. But if I really stop and think about it, I've been exercising for a week and like this is one day that I've messed up. So recognize it and sort of just see, you don't have to tell it it's stupid. You just have to like, try to see the other side of the coin. The second thing that you could really do, I mean, this this sounds like prime for, you know, depending on what you've been through, I would strongly get, you know, considered getting evaluated by a mental health professional. Because because maybe there could be elements of like trauma or depression or things like that, that that may be like clinical in nature that you could benefit from. And if you want to work on the some scar itself, you don't have to see a therapist for that if you don't have a clinical sort of issue. And then like coaching is sort of designed to help people work through those kinds of issues and help you understand your patterns. That's really what coaching is about. But I definitely think that this is not a journey that you need to walk alone, although I think if you work at it, like I think you'll you can figure it out on your own through meditation, through reflection, things like that, because you sound to me to be actually a pretty capable guy and very insightful, which I think is really what you need. Yeah. Yeah, that sounds right. I mean, I've been trying therapy for a while. It's just I don't know. I've yet to meet someone that's like able I'm able to like talk to like a way where like, I feel like there's an understanding or whatever. Yep. But yeah. Yeah. And if there isn't an understanding, whose fault is that? It's their fault. Good. OK, so so I'm going to toss one last thing to you. OK, yeah, it's their fault, but it's also your responsibility. Yeah, that makes sense. OK, yeah. All right, man. Thanks for calling in. Hopefully that was helpful. No, it was really helpful. Yeah. Thank you so much for all the kind words and stuff. Thank you for calling in. I really I think your question and concern is something that a lot of people can relate to. Yeah, no, I really enjoyed it. Yeah, I'm glad I hope someone else could relate to that, too. Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Yeah. I had to use.