 So this I think was the context, right? So I think it came back to this donation that we got from Hiram Abifek, which is, why do you do it? Why get up? Why keep fighting? Do you believe you're fighting for something for more than your survival? Can you tell me what it is? Do you even know? Is it freedom or truth? Perhaps peace, illusions, or temporary constructs? Okay, so here's the thing. So then I asked you guys the question, why does rain fall down? And then everyone was like, gravity. And then I asked the question, why does fire go up? And then everyone was like, we don't know. Anti-gravity, science, physics, you know, it just does. You know, density, someone said. I don't know. So I was in India and I was basically asking my teachers some of these questions. And it's like, why does this happen to us? Why do we do this? Like, why are human beings like fundamentally, like, why are we not content? Right? Why do we come up with these magic pills for the problems that we have? Like, fundamentally, like, why are we not content? Like, why can't we just be happy? Like, if you look at a rock that's outside, the rock is just happy. Is this just a consequence of consciousness? And so what my teacher said, and this is the funny thing about, you know, meditation teachers and ashrams is like, some of them really don't know science, but they like kind of talk like they know science. So then he was like, he asked me, where does all water end up? And where does all fire end up? So eventually it was sort of like all water winds up in the ocean. And the scientist in me was like, not really, because like, you know, like it also ends up in the clouds. Like, the whole point is that it's a cycle and it's like, you get evaporation, then you get clouds, then you get rainfall. Rainfall ends up in rivers and rivers ends up in the ocean. Then he's like, where does all fire end up? I was like, I don't know, it just like kind of burns, right? Like it like there's combustion and then you like produce like carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide and things like that. And he was like, it ends up in the sun. And I was like, so I was like, okay, whatever. And so then his point was this, that all fire points towards the sun and all water goes towards the ocean. I was like, sure. I mean, I guess from sort of like a, you know, like, I mean, I guess sort of in a weird way, it's like kind of true because fire goes up and the sun is generally up there. So I'm with you kind of. And so I mean, I think the dude was trying to make a point. So I was like, let that slide. Okay. So this is the problem is that if you're a skeptic in an ashram, sometimes you get into these sorts of situations where if you contest him on those points, you never get to the end of the story. Just like you guys are going to never get to the end of the story. And so what he was saying, what came next, and I was glad I kind of held my peace because he was saying that all things strive for their source. And sure his analogies weren't great. And so I think like, you know, when people ask me like, why do we do this? Like, why bother getting better? And the one thing that I will say is that if you look at human beings, we definitely have a particular gravity to us, right? I don't mean like gravitas. I mean, like there are things that pull us in a direction. Like we get pulled, like if we're discontent, we get pulled towards peace. You know, we heard today about how Yuna gets pulled towards like quieting those calm feelings. So why do we do it? Because that's the direction that we're pulled. I could call this thing dharma or duty. I could say that it's my duty to help people. But like that too is like, it's not duty is just a word that we wrap around like being pulled. And so what I want you guys to really stop and think about is like, what is pulling you in a particular direction? And earlier we had, you know, we had a, someone kind of offer a pretty big donation and we're grateful for that. And he was also talking about how they, you know, how they're struggling and they're triding water. And I want, what I want all of y'all to realize if you guys are triding water or you yearn for something or you want something is like, that is actually really, really important. You have this gravitational pull to become happy and peaceful and content. And so it's not so much about why, I mean, like I could offer whatever theories I can, that'll be just as pseudoscientific as all fire seeks to return home to the sun. The point of the matter is that all fire points up. And the point of the matter is that there's a gravitational pull that is pulling you towards like becoming content and happy and wanting to change your life. And so this is where I'd say use that gravitational potential energy. Don't get caught up in your mind to like think like, oh, this is the particular thing that I need. What you should focus on is the direction, not like the precise point, right? So you may think that a particular thing will make you happy, but it's not that thing that's going to make you happy. And this is what people discover is they get things and things and things. This is what some people call the hedonistic treadmill. If you seek one pleasure, then you seek another pleasure and another pleasure and another pleasure. I see this a lot with my clients who work at investment banks where they're like, okay, once I make VP, then I'll be happy. And then they wind up as VPs. And they're like, once I make junior partner, I'll be happy. And then they're like, okay, I'll be happy. And then they're not happy or director in banks. And then once I become a managing director, then I'll be happy. And then like what these people don't realize is that there's like one person from each of these positions who comes to my office every week, including the managing directors. They're at the top of the food chain. And they look around at their life and they've got two divorces behind them. And they're like not happy. And so like, there is no particular thing that if you get that thing, it's going to make you happy. There's certainly a lot of happiness to be found through achievement, through relationships, through gaming even. But at the end of the day, what you guys really need to move towards is like just move in the direction that you want to go and don't get particularly caught up in like a particular magical pill or solution. If I do this, then my entire life will change. And I've seen this too. And like there's certainly progress to be made. But I see it in all kinds of clients and all kinds of people, because at the end of the day, if you listen to Buddha, Buddha, you know, he says that happiness comes from within. And that's not like, I know it's become like a new age yoga calendar, like Instagram kind of like thing that people like posting like, oh, happiness comes from within, man. So that's why you should buy these $120 Lululemon pants, because happiness comes from within. Yeah. Subscribe, like, follow us on Twitter. If you want happiness from within, use more social media, bro. Yeah. Give us donations, man. Come to my retreat, bro. Order my merch, bro, because happiness comes from within. We have this really great t-shirt that says happiness comes from within. Yeah. And so what we recommend people do is they chop it up into little pieces with scissors and make it into a stew and then eat it because the happiness is on the inside. Right? Like, like we say that so much, but we don't recognize what it means. What it actually means is that like it is your, the way that you view the world that matters the most. And so if you're getting caught up, move in the direction that you need to go in and don't get particularly attached to some thing that is in that direction. So if I'm hungry, like I need to eat something, not eat precisely the food that I'm craving. And so you guys should do that for yourselves as well in terms of taking care of yourself. If you, if you're, if there's, if there's a part of you that wakes up in the morning and is like, I need to be in more shape than I am, I want to look better. And then what happens is you attach yourself to a particular fantasy. I want to look like that. Don't follow the fantasy, move in the direction. So it's not about having like, you know, being one of these, these generic dudes who's on the bachelor. It's like about being a little bit better than you were the day before. And so exercise a little bit, eat a little bit healthier, eat a piece of fruit, drink water instead of soda, like take one little thing and do that thing, move in the direction that you're going, but don't get caught up in a particular goal. I'm only going to go to college if I can go to Harvard and nothing else is, is worth it. Right. I'm only going to go to the gym. Like I'm going to start going to the gym once I'm in shape. So I don't embarrass myself. It's like, I know exactly how those people feel because that's how I feel. I have those thoughts, but it's like completely missing the point. Just like, think about that thought process for a second. You know, it's like, I'm going to go to the gym once I'm in shape. Look what, you know, like this is the only thing that's going to work for me. Like you attach yourselves to this particular hope and you go towards it, but just get help, move in the direction that your gravitation is pulling you, head towards the source, do something, anything in the right direction. And that is how you wind up in the right place. You don't start from, you know, the beginning and see a particular point because you don't know what's going to work from you at the very beginning of the journey. This is something that is called the planning fallacy, which is that we make plans at the beginning, which is when we have the least information and therefore our plans are actually objectively the worst plans that they'll ever be is at the very beginning. But this is what we do. We attach ourselves to a goal and we say, oh, this is what I need to be happy. But what do you know? Like you're not like you haven't started that journey, move on to the next step. You're not like you haven't started that journey, move in the right direction, take one step forward and let go of what's going to happen. I was psyched today because I had a great meditation for you. And I was like, this is going to be perfect. This is what I studied meditation for because she has this problem and I have the perfect meditation for her. And then life taught me the same lesson over and over and over again, because this is what I've noticed happens to me. The more I even said her, I said, I have an answer for you. You guys notice that? I don't usually say that. So I've noticed that when I feel like I've just noticed this weird pattern in my own life, that when I think I know something and I'm like, ah, now the wisdom of Dr. K will transform you. Life comes and just bitch slaps me. It's like, uh-uh, Dr. K, get back in your place. Listen to what they're saying because they don't seem to be ready for it yet. And it's like, okay, fine. I'll take it. Let me just follow her where she wants to go. And the perfect meditation is for another day. You guys notice that? Like how bizarre it is that I don't usually say that. Usually I'm struggling to find something. And today I have the perfect one and Jebediah is absolutely right. And so we learn these lessons. Like I get taught these lessons continuously. And you guys should take away this lesson too, which is that if you're attached to a particular thing that is the answer to all of your problems, chances are it's not the answer to all of your problems. The answer to all of your problems is to take second best, get the silver medal every single time or even the bronze. Like who's complaining? Just go for it. Right? Okay. So that was the story.