 Hello, everyone. I'm basically a modern slave. I wanted to tell you guys a little bit about my current work situation. I'm working as a pizza delivery driver. I work 13 to 15 hours a day, four to five days per week, making approximately $3.60. That's a euro, right? Per hour plus tips. Then when they were hiring, they said I'll need to work 11 hour shifts plus taking co-workers home after work. Apparently those few hours cleaning pizza place after the shift driving my co-workers home is not paid. This week I worked for six days per week. The boss called me, in other words, begging me to help them by working, but only this week because two other people left after the new year and one got COVID. I asked if I have a choice. The boss said basically no. I agreed because I thought it's only that one week. Today I find out that next week I'm working six days as well. That made me quite furious. This last week I feel like I'm not even living life. I wake up, go to work, get absolutely tired, get back home, sleep because at that moment you don't want to do anything else and repeat, I just want to quit so bad. Anyways, just needed a place to vent. I thought about quitting tomorrow. My shift starts in five minutes. It's going to be a long day. Stay strong, folks, and I'll try to do the same. The first thing is that I'm noticing that a lot of people in chat are kind of saying like, this has to be this location. Oh, this sounds like Portugal. This sounds like France. This sounds like this part. I think the truth is that this is happening everywhere. What I'd like to talk to you all about today is how do people become modern slaves? What are the circumstances that lead to this kind of situation where they're hired under these conditions and even told at the very beginning that it's going to be 11-hour shifts and they're going to have to take home coworkers? In some ways, this is even better than usual because a lot of times during the hiring process, people will say one thing and then they'll force you to do something else. It's really tough because in these situations, we may look at this and people on the internet will say, just quit. Just go find another job. The truth is that if you're in this situation of modern slavery, it's not that simple. There's a reason why you wound up here in the first place, and it's not like that this person is foolish or anything like that. It's not that this person is lazy or foolish or doesn't know any better or things like that. There are very real circumstances, both externally and internally, that lead people into this situation. Until we have an appreciation for how someone gets here and what goes into this situation, then only can we start to really come up with solutions to help people get out of the situation. What I'm going to talk a little bit about today is modern slavery and how do people get into this situation? More importantly, what are the key dynamics at play? For example, what are the power dynamics at play? What kind of modeling has this person had early in their life? How do they determine what is acceptable or unacceptable? Then other kinds of stuff as well. For example, this person is saying those few hours are not paid. A lot of people will be like, wait, what? Then why are you doing it? How is that legal? That can't be legal. It may not be legal. The other thing is that we see other things that happen a lot in working situations. The boss called me begging me to help them work. When a boss begs you, what is going on psychologically when begging is happening? The next thing that happens is I asked if I have a choice and the boss said, basically no. Does basically no mean no or is it almost no? If something is almost no or basically no, what does that actually mean? This is the kind of thing where oftentimes in work situations, because of power dynamics and boundary setting issues, people will use certain kinds of language and then we won't really clarify what that means. I want you all to understand this for a second. When you ask if you have a choice and your boss says basically no, in their mind, are they thinking that you have a choice? Actually, kind of yes. They sort of like, you're asking if you have a choice and they're like, oh, they agreed to it. A boss can walk out of this interaction believing that the worker agreed to this. This is the kind of thing that there's a lot actually going on here that we can learn from about setting healthy boundaries, especially in power dynamic situations. That is really, really important. The last thing is today I found out I'm working six days as well. In this situation, do you have the power to say no? Then the last thing is that made me quite furious. When you're at work and you feel something, so when your boss is begging me, what do you feel? When you start to feel quite furious, you feel a certain way. What do you do with those feelings? How do those feelings interact with your boss? How do they interact with your work environment? Essentially, what are the emotional drives that happen within us that create situations like this? In my overwhelming experience, understanding the emotional drives and understanding the power dynamics and how to set healthy boundaries has been very, very helpful to people to create good work environments. This is the kind of thing where when I say create good work environments, I don't mean just for the employees. This may sound kind of weird because I know at least the anti-work subreddit is very anti-employer, but I want you all to think about this work situation. Do you think the employer is happy here? They've had two people quit. They've had one person get sick with COVID, maybe because they've had COVID policies that aren't really great. Then this person is on the verge of quitting. This is not a good place even from an employer's perspective. Some people may think a lot about, this is a predatory workplace, and it absolutely is, but people assume that a predatory workplace is good for the employer, which in my overwhelming experience is not the case. This is where understanding some of these things, because this person, this employer is basically by virtue of crapping on their employees so much, driving their employees away, and pushing them themselves out of business. That's what they're doing. The interesting thing is that acknowledging healthy boundaries and acknowledging emotions at work, being very clear about communication and not taking advantage of your employees is actually good for the employer too. There's this idea that if you're a predatory employer that you're winning, when in my experience, overwhelmingly, and I've done consulting at a lot of different companies, the companies that do the best are the ones that have happy employees and respectful employers. When there's respect on both sides, when there's fairness on both sides, that's actually when things end up the best. Let's talk a little bit about modern slavery and how we get here. I'd say that the biggest thing that leads to modern slavery is unhealthy boundaries. A lot of times at work, we'll have these situations where bosses will beg us. They'll ask us for favors. There'll be like, this job, for example, has unhealthy boundaries at the get-go. For example, if you were to ask this person, when do you start work? Then the person will say, I start work at this time. When does work end? Well, work sort of ends when I'm done with my shift, but then I have to clean after and I have to drop people off. Oh, okay. Is that a part of your job? They're like, well, sort of. Do you get paid for it? Well, not really. Then is it a part? I'm confused. Is this a favor? Is it part of your job? What is that extra uncompensated time? Work starts here and goes here and you get compensated here or euro. Did I do the euro symbol right or is that backwards? It's lagging, whatever. Then there's this extra time over here, which is uncompensated. Is that a part of your job or is that not a part of your job? In the United States, if you require someone to do something, generally speaking, you have to pay them for it. There are some exceptions to that, but generally speaking, that's kind of the case. This is lagging again. Okay, whatever. If that's the case, then what is this? Is this part of your job or is this not part of your job? The first thing that we realize from this scenario is that there are unhealthy boundaries. If you're in a situation where it's a little bit unclear what's a part of your job or what isn't a part of your job, that's the start of unhealthy boundaries. What tends to happen if you have unhealthy boundaries is this results in something called job creep. We see this especially in programming and stuff, where there's scope creep, where if you've got a project and then someone else wants this feature and then you want this feature and then suddenly the project that was this big over time becomes this big and then over time becomes this big, but early on you were budgeted for this. Then people get confused when they ask for this and then they ask for this and then you end up paying more euro. They're super confused. They're like, but this was the budget that you gave me. We see this a lot in terms of when you have developers working with executives. They're like, you see this a lot even in the gaming industry. It's like, we want to have customized armor. That's going to cost you something. Then we end up with all kinds of problems like games being released too early and things like that. In the same way in a job, oftentimes what we'll see is that there's going to be some kind of boundary that is unhealthy or muddy in some way. Then as that boundary is nice and loose, unhealthy employers will cause you to cram stuff into there. Biggest example that we see, which we definitely saw today was, because two people left after the new year and one got COVID, so what's happening to this work? There used to be three additional people at work. Where is that work going? It's going into this person. The person who stays is the one who's getting all that work. What tends to happen with employers actually is, this is a common thing that I see, is that if you have loose boundaries, if there are two people at work, one of them has loose boundaries and one of them has firm boundaries, the one with the loose boundaries is the one that keeps on getting more work. You're going to keep on getting more and more work packed into your unhealthy boundary because you're the person at the very beginning, we see this with this person. The person, even when they got hired, did not set a firm boundary. They were told at the beginning of work that, hey, you're going to have to do a bunch of work that we're not going to pay you for. The person was like, okay. In doing so, they've established a fluid boundary. Once they've established a fluid boundary, then it's kind of like open season, people quit. Yeah, you're going to need to do this. Then what's going to happen is employers, and this isn't just employers, this is humans. Employees will do this with employers as well, by the way. It's not one way. Then what's going to happen is, by the way, you got to pick people up. These are bad working conditions. Then we have these two people over here who have firm boundaries and they quit because they're like, this is ridiculous. I'm like, I'm not getting paid for this. Then you have the one person that stays. They stay. Then this work goes over here and then suddenly this person is working six days a week because of begging. We'll get to that in a second. Then just this week. What do we know about this person's boundaries? What are they going to do if we push them? They're going to be like, okay. Then into next week. Then they're going to experience frustration. But what do they do with their frustration? They post on the internet. They don't go have a conversation with their boss or their employer and say, hey, this is ridiculous. I'm on the verge of quitting. Then what's going to happen is they're going to have a conversation with their boss. They're going to be like, yay, this person quit. Screw capitalism. Screw stick it to the man, which is totally fine. I have nothing against quitting and leaving an unfair employer to figure out their own mess. But I'm concerned about this person because what do you think is going to happen the next time they get a job? Are all these boundary issues magically going to be fixed? I don't think so. Next time what's going to happen is maybe they'll find another job where someone's going to start off because you all see that this scenario is actually designed to not end well. It's all because of unhealthy boundaries. Then the question is, what's going on here and what contributes to this? We start with unhealthy boundaries. Where does this come from? There are a couple of other things here. One is there's conflict avoidance. This is a huge thing. If we want to understand how to correct this behavior, we have to understand conflict avoidance. This person had multiple options to set a boundary. Why don't we set good boundaries? That's the next point. Okay, Dr. K, you're saying set good boundaries. Why don't we? Because we're conflict avoidant. At the job interview, when they're told from the get-go, by the way, you're going to need to work 11-hour days and you have to drop people off. What do you say at that point? Why don't you say anything? You're like, okay. Then you ask these questions like, do I have a choice? Then the person says basically no. Then it's like, what's going on there? That's all conflict avoidance. This person is not saying, it has never said to their boss, I don't think that this is fair. They've never set a boundary. They've said, I'm happy to do whatever you want to, but if this is a job, I expect to be compensated. I'm confused. Are you asking me to volunteer my time or is this paid work? Does this need to be done? If you're hiring me, why is it my responsibility to arrange for transport? I'm confused. I thought my job was to make pizza. Is this a part of my job description or is this not a part of my job description? Now, I'm not saying that you shouldn't. This is one of the worst things that I think has happened is that employers have taken the aspect of team player and abused it so much that it terrifies me as someone who has both worked in good team player environments and now like this someone who employs people. We love team players, but somewhere along the way, team players started to mean like, we're going to ask you to do a bunch of work and we're not going to compensate you for it. That's not what a team player is. I don't know if you all have ever done this, but I've worked in environments where people are team players and those are awesome environments. What does a team player mean? I still remember to this day, in the summer of 2014, I was in residency for two months and I was just so overwhelmed and so overworked. My colleagues right next to me were equally overwhelmed and equally overworked. The doctor that was sitting next to me, also in residency for two months, we've been doing it just as long, I have to do something called a prior authorization, which is I have to make a phone call to an insurance company to try to get them to pay for a medication that one of my patients needs. Usually, this is like a 30-minute process where you sit on hold for like 20 minutes. I was just exhausted. The doctor next to me turns to me and says, you want me to take care of that prior off for you? I was like, dude, you have too much to do. I can't ask you to do this. I'm like, seriously, don't worry about it. I'll take care of it for you. She took care of it for me. It was the nicest thing in the world. Even now, seven years later, I remember that moment because it's not like she had less work than I did. We both had a ton of work. We're both overworked, but she was a team player in that moment. To this day, I've tried my best to repay her, but I don't think I've never repaid that debt despite my best efforts. You can absolutely be a team player. I think being a team player is good. The whole point of a corporation, at least in my mind, maybe it's profit and stuff like that, but I think the point is that if you guys have ever worked in environments where you're just all by yourself, that's not fun. It's not engaging. The whole point, if we think about AOE healing in this community, the whole point is that we can do stuff together that we can't do on our own. What's happened in the capitalistic corporate world is team player has been hijacked, culturally appropriated, to be a veil over abusive work practices. That's ridiculous. People are like, oh, we don't want team players. It's like, I don't want to work in any environment where there are team players. What do you want? You want to work in a cubicle where you're a peon sitting at a computer doing like, that's terrible. I'm not blaming those people for avoiding the term team player. What I'm blaming is that companies are starting to use team player as some license to be predatory and put people into a slavery-like situation. That's ridiculous. But we want to work in teams. That's fun. It's good to be a team player. Anyway, if we look at this, what we see here is a thread of conflict avoidance. If we want to understand why are we conflict avoidant, then what happens is we need to look at emotional drivers. This in turn results in emotional drivers, or not results in, is due to emotional drivers. If we look at this post, we see a lot of emotions threaded out through here. When they were hiring, they said, I'll need to work 11-hour shifts plus taking co-workers home after work. Apparently, those few hours is not paid. What do you imagine this person was feeling in that moment? What do you think was going through their head? Then now, it's like when their boss calls and begs them, they're begging and forcing. This is really confusing. The boss called me, in other words, begging me to help them because two people left. I asked if I have a choice and the boss said no. What's happening here is the boss forcing them or begging them? In one situation, the power dynamic is that if I'm begging you, you have all the power. In the other situation, if I'm forcing you, you have none of the power. There's weird power dynamics crap going on. There's weird emotional drivers going on. Then you feel furious. What do you do with that fury? Do you talk to your boss about it? No. You just either take it, you just keep taking it, or what you do is you just reach your limit and you quit, which is what this person has managed to like. This is the work environment they managed to create. They've not created a work environment where people feel comfortable coming to their boss and sharing with them what their concerns are, which is crucial. It's critical. All of the good environments that I've worked in have systems of feedback where people can go to their superiors and they can say, hey, I'm unhappy with this. It's not like the superior listens to you 100%. They're not going to make changes. For example, residents in the United States are criminally underpaid, but we have no negotiating power. Even my boss doesn't really have much negotiating power there because they have to answer to a whole systemic industry of predatory work for medical residents, but that's neither here nor there. That's not my boss's fault. They're going to advocate and do what they can. They honestly are trying to make things better. They're happy to work there. They want to be a team player. They want to support us. We want to support them. It's awesome. To this day, literally this morning, I texted my former boss because they're an awesome person and I have really good relationship with them. What are these emotional drivers? Let's start to look at a couple of common emotional drivers. I'll give you guys an example of how emotional drivers result in poor boundaries. Let's use an example first. Let's say I'm afraid of loneliness. Then I start hanging out with some friends. Then one of them makes fun of me. What do I do? I'm afraid of loneliness. What do I do? What do you all think? You laugh it off. You're so funny when you call me an idiot. Ignore it. Ignore it. What kind of behavior does that reinforce? Then someone else, a different friend, friend number two, makes fun of you the next day. Then what do you do? You're weird. You're kind of weird. Then you kind of like, laugh it off. Yeah, you're right. I'm so insignificant of a human being. Now since you're afraid of loneliness, you kind of tolerate this behavior and then the group sort of learns. They're like, oh cool. So this person is the butt of the jokes. Great. We needed someone to beat up on when we're feeling bad about ourselves. Fantastic. So you become the butt of the jokes. Now you know you're the butt of the jokes. It's become a thing. The whole group is like, this is the person. It starts off as like, oh wow, this person is awesome. They can take a joke. But over time, it grows and they push that boundary and they start making fun of you. And then like you end up in these situations where your friends like actually actively bully you. But then why do you stay? Because you're afraid of loneliness. Because if I tell them, hey, that's not funny, this person will dislike me. If they dislike me, they will not invite me to their house. If they don't invite me to their house and they invite all of my other friends, I will be alone. So it's like, I have a choice. Either I can hang out with these people, have some fun and be the butt of the jokes, or I can be a loser. Like I can be a loser at home on my own or I can be a loser with them, but still have friends and not be like as much of a loser. Right? So this is just an example of how an emotional drive actually leads to unhealthy boundaries. So does this happen at work? And absolutely, right? So like, let's think about a couple of different things that happen. So people are reluctant to ask for stuff. Why are we reluctant to ask for stuff? Because we don't want to be perceived as greedy. Right? So who's greedy? The corporation or the employee? Like we don't want to be like them. Like we demonize greed. Like even right now within the anti-war subreddit, we are demonizing greed. And what are we doing by demonizing greed? We're saying, oh, these corporations are so evil and greedy. And like in a bizarre way, we're actually like, we're labeling this thing as greedy, which I'm with. But then what's going to happen is like subconsciously, we're actually like at the same time making employees feel greedy for doing things like asking for raises or just compensation or things like that. So this is a huge thing. I don't want my boss to think I'm greedy. Okay. Huge emotional driver. So emotional driver number one, emotional driver number two. So when people, when it comes to time for like promotion and things like that, people have difficulty advocating for themselves in a work environment. Right? So they have like difficulty advocating for what they're worth. And why is that? It's because I don't want to be perceived as a show off. Right? So like, if you crush, let's say you've got some kind of contract and you do a really good job, and then like, you don't want to be perceived as a show off. So you don't like really advocate for yourself. You don't really let your boss know. You don't let other people know because there's someone else at work who's always talking about how awesome they are. And you don't want to be like that person. So you don't want to be perceived as a show off. So you don't share your accomplishments. Right. And then what happens? Then your colleague gets promoted. And then what do you do? You mauled. Right. And then you start talking about how biased and evil your bosses are. Right. So you're like, okay, I'm going to be a show off. And evil your bosses. Oh my God, they're so biased. See this all the time. Which may be true. Right. So we're not saying, and this is the problem with echo chambers on the internet, is that like, someone will post this, but like, no one will ever say, like, do you advocate for yourself? Right. I'm not saying that these predatory workplaces don't exist. I'm not saying that these employers are behaving properly. But what I'm saying is that like, in this scenario, and what we tend to focus on is you. So what are the emotional drivers at play that force you into situations that are unhealthy for you and actually happen to be unhealthy for the employer? Generally speaking, I believe, maybe I'm wrong there. I'm not an expert in business. Okay. So you don't want to be perceived as a show off. Now there's other kinds of weird things as well. Right. So like, you get guilt trips. So like, you want to be a team player. Like, and so this is where the guilt tripping comes in. This isn't just employers, right? This is like, you have to be careful about the emotional driver of not feeling like an asshole. Because that's a really powerful driver. Because you don't think of yourself as the asshole, right? The boss is the asshole. The corporation is the asshole. I'm not the asshole. Therefore, if your boss comes to you and begs you, and by the way, we see this one, two punch all the way and all the time in unhealthy environments, that one, two punch is guilt plus forcing. And it's not just unhealthy work environments. It's also like abusive relationships. So if you have like a narcissistic parent or family member or things like that, they will both force you and guilt you like at the same time. So I've seen parents that will do things like guilt their kid into coming home for the holidays. And then like, there's the care, there's the, it's not even the carrot. It's like one kind of stick and another kind of stick. And by the way, if you don't come home for the holidays, I'm not going to pay for your college anymore. Asshole. And then you're like, and I'm so lonely. Like I've done so much for you. I'm paying for your college. And if you're not going to like come home for the holidays, like I can't believe I do so much for you. Like I can't believe that you wouldn't even come home. Like, don't you realize how like alone I am? Like I've done everything for you. I've sacrificed for you. And how dare you try to have a life outside of me. And by the way, if you're not going to like, you know, sacrifice for me, like if your friends are more important to you than I am, then maybe I have other things that are more important to me than you are. Right? It's like, there's this weird one, two punch of begging you to take these extra shifts and forcing you to do so. So watch out for the emotional driver of guilt trip. Right? And like, you're not being an asshole by setting a limit to someone. It certainly feels that way, but be aware of that emotional driver. Okay. Next thing. So the hidden tracking, I don't know what to call this of rays versus fire. So internally we have this weird little complex that is always trying to figure out, are we going to get raised? Are we going to get a raise? Are we going to get promoted? Are we going to get fired? Because no one ever like keeps score, right? Like the score is not kept really above board. Like you don't know when you have strikes. You don't know when you have check marks. So let's say that, you know, there's three check marks in order to get a raise. We need three check marks. Right. And then in order to get fire, we need three X's, but no one ever tells you like which of these you have and which of these you don't have. So there's just this guessing game going on. So this is all like behind, you know, you can't see what's going on here. So a lot of times in these particular situations, like if we go back to this, this example where the person is saying they're told in the interview, by the way, you have to work 11 hour days and there's a bunch of unpaid work after that you have to do. What this person is thinking is this is like a subtle test, right? There's a check market play. Like if I set a boundary or even ask a question, this person is going to think, oh my God, I'm not a team player. And then I will be one step closer to not being hired or being fired or not getting promoted. Right. Cause we all want approval. And then similarly for each of these different things that this person is being asked to do, drive people home, you know, come in six days a week, what they're thinking in their mind is like, is this going to move me towards promotion? And what's really devastating for people is that they will do all kinds of stuff gunning for promotion. Right. But since it's all opaque, they actually don't know. They're like, I'm going to make this sacrifice, sacrifice one, and then sacrifice two, and then sacrifice three. But like, since I don't want to be perceived as a show off, I'm sort of quietly making these sacrifices and not really like advertising it because I don't want to seem greedy. And then when promotion time comes around, someone else gets promoted and then you feel resentful or frustrated. And this is where the journey ends. So now what do you do with this resentment or frustration? You tend to quit or swallow it and keep going. What people don't do is like share some kind of feedback with their boss, right? We don't go up to our boss and we don't say, Hey, by the way, I've been working really hard and I've been actually going the extra mile and being a team player. And I'm like, I don't understand why this person was promoted because based on my experience, I actually work way more than they do. Right. So we don't say things like that. We don't air things out to our boss. Now that doesn't mean that maybe that person is doing all kinds of stuff so that you're not aware of. That is the reason that they got promoted. But I think it's completely reasonable to share that kind of stuff with your boss. The key thing here though, is that until you start acknowledging these emotional drivers that drive these unhealthy boundaries and put you in situations that are predatory, this kind of thing is going to keep happening. You can keep job hunting and should you quit this kind of job? Like, absolutely. Right. So there's like, I think you should quit and try to go find another job by all means, but be careful because the next time around when you're in one of these jobs and someone tries to push a boundary, like it's okay to do things outside of your role. Like even now today, I do things that are outside of my role. You know, we have like, that's actually pretty normal for like a pretty healthy functioning workplace. But over time, what you want is like some amount of compensation for that, acknowledgement of that, or like, you know, how we do things at HG is like someone does something outside of their role and they do it for a while and they're like, you know, this is actually really frustrating. Like, okay, so it sounds like we really need to hire a person to take that off of your plate so that you can focus on your job. That's how it should go at a company. Right. And so this kind of thing is happening all the time. And if we don't want to fall into this trap of modern slavery, it really comes with setting healthy boundaries. Setting healthy boundaries in turn has to do with understanding why we don't set healthy boundaries. So there may be some degree of power dynamics at play, but a big part of it tends to be conflict avoidance. And especially the conflict avoidance that you're concerned about has to do with emotional drivers and those being, you know, wanting to be perceived as a certain way. You don't want to be perceived as greedy. You don't want to be a show off. You want to be a team player. You don't want to like feel guilty. Right. So the avoidance of that feeling of guilt results in you making a sacrifice. And if you're in an unhealthy work environment, your employer is not going to recognize that and not acknowledge it or, you know, won't promote you or something. I mean, hopefully at least there's an acknowledgement of some kind, you know, and sometimes the acknowledgement is like ridiculous. So like I remember hearing during the pandemic, you know, some CEO of a hospital system got a 16 million dollar bonus and all of the residents in that same hospital system got a thank you cap. They got a hat. And it's like one guy's making 16 million dollars and the residents who are like on the front lines taking care of patients are getting caps. This is ridiculous. Right. So and then a couple of other things to keep in mind are that in your mind, be aware of what if you're keeping this hidden tracker of am I on track for a promotion or am I on track to get fired? And like how much does that fear of not getting promoted or striving to be promoted or, you know, not getting fired, how much does that influence whether you let other people like cross your boundaries? And then lastly, as you start to build up negative emotions from the result of numbers one through four, you're going to end up with resentment and frustration. How do you manage that resentment and frustration? Do you just let it build up and quit? Do you offer feedback to your boss and say, hey, this is not really working for me or I'm very unhappy here. What do you think is going to happen? Or do you swallow it and keep going? Because generally speaking, the two things that people do is this and this, whereas what they should be doing is have a conversation. This is where you may say, but if I have a conversation like nothing is going to change and that's where like now hold on a second. I think you got to be careful there because it's possible that nothing may change. You may be at a work environment where people are completely unresponsive to your feedback and they don't care what you think. And in that case, you should absolutely quit. And people may say, okay, if I quit, how do I find a different job? This is what you say when you go into your next job. You all ready for it? You guys want to get a good job out of the situation? How do you turn the situation into a good job? Here it is. Hi, my name is Mad For Money. I'm a dedicated hard worker and I'm a team player. Why did I leave my last job? So I started out working 11 hour days and then I found out that people need to transport two and four from work. So I actually went ahead and did that. And then a couple of people quit and my boss asked me to like lift more and I was actually happy to do that. So for one week, I started working six days a week, 11 hour shifts. I'm a dedicated worker. I'm a team player and the boss started making that regular and I wasn't comfortable with that. So I'm happy to be a team player. I'm happy to be a hard worker. I'm happy to go to the extra mile, but I'm looking for a place that will reward that kind of behavior instead of take advantage of it. And that's why I left my last employer. And then you can ask them, set boundaries then and there. How do you treat employees who go the extra mile? Do they get compensated more? Do they get promoted more? Do they get raises? Or do they get treated the same? You can ask them and then like, this is an interview, right? It's not just one way. Because when you come into that office, like that you're an employee that people want, right? Like you are someone that they want. Like you want someone who's going to go the extra mile. And so you're interviewing them too. And so you can say like, if I go the extra mile, like how have you rewarded employees in the past? And this is when the employer starts shitting themselves. Because if they haven't done that, they're well, like we've done this and this, okay. Right. But I can guarantee you this, like I guess I can't guarantee it, but they're not going to walk out of that interview thinking you're under qualified and a pushover. Does that make sense? Like they may think you're an asshole. They may think you're hard to work with, but you've demonstrated that you can say like, look, I'm a hard worker. I just want to be fairly compensated. Like that's all, you know, and I'm happy to go the extra mile, but like I expect, you know, like I don't want to be in a place where people are going to take advantage of that. I want to be in a place where people reward that kind of behavior. So that's like, you have to be careful about your phrasing, right? So you don't want to like go too far down the, every extra minute that I work, I want one cent extra. So that kind of thing, I don't think is generally speaking, what employers want, but absolutely sort of pointing out that you're someone who's looking to be like rewarded for going the extra mile is like fantastic. Right. So yeah. And this is where people are like kind of commenting, Oh, like no one wants to work. Like, no, people actually want to work. Do you guys get that? This is the biggest, this is the biggest problem right now is that people are like getting confused. Employers are getting confused. People want to work. People want to do things with meaning, right? They like want to be productive. Like humans like being productive. They just don't want to be taken advantage of for working. That's all right. There's not a labor shortage. There's a wage shortage. Like you're working, you're getting $3, a three euro and 60, 3.6 euro per hour of work plus tips. And you're doing all this extra work. And like, this is what's going to happen. You're going to burn through all of your good employers, employees, if you're an employer like that. And there are good places to work. Like those places exist. Last time I checked, actually Google was one of those places. You know, you don't hear like, here's like the two opposite ends of the spectrum, right? Some places you have like this where people are working a lot. Google's like, we're going to keep our office open 24 hours a day. You can commute if you want to. You cannot come if you don't want to. By the way, we want you in the office because we've noticed that like, maybe it's good if you're in the office. So we're going to give you a bunch of free good food. There's going to be a chef that you can, you know, they'll fix you what you want. Here's our menu. Like we're going to try to make your work. There's a gym here. So we want you to like take care of yourself. And we're actually willing to put our money where our mouth is. So instead of saying, yeah, like we're a company that values employee wellness, right? Google's like, we'll give you a gym and a chef. You know, it's. So, you know, I think that this is the kind of situation where like, I think this is good. Like I think it's healthy because all these sort of basically unsustainable non-survival of the fittest kind of like employers are going to go bust. Right. And like they're not they're not entitled to exist. Like we're talking about a free market system, like employers that can't con enough people are so bad at conning people into jobs, like, and people start quitting like they should quit.