 And then the first realization of streaming sets in. And that is this axiom, if you're not growing, you're dying. So let's see, let's see what's going on here. Okay. Does this, y'all can see this, hear this? Streamers being depressed. Streamers, depression. Anyway, don't call this a good game if you see me wearing a shirt. Depression. So I was talking, like I've talked to a few streamers. I talked to XQC, Hassan, Mizzie, in my own feelings, even Sykuno. Hassan's depressed. And I realized that every single streamer will readjust how they feel about how they're doing. Like very quickly. So if they're like 10K Andy, like, you know, everyone was at one point. And then they jumped to 20K Andy, they'll be like, oh, that's really exciting. It's cool. Novel. And then they will immediately, like within a week, be like, I am a 20K Andy. Anything below that is bad. Oh, yeah. And then they'll be like, if I just hit 30K, I'll be happy. It's called the, there's a lot of aspects here. One is called the disease of more. You just need more and more and more to fill the void. Especially if you drop below some sort of watermark, it's arbitrary. Yeah. It's like, it's, it's really fucked up. Gambling's the same way. I would know. What's funny is there's always a number though, that'll be like, if I hit this, I will be happy. Like if I can just consistently get 30K viewers, I'll be happy. And all of them, the answer is no. Like even XQC, the biggest streamer in the platform. I remember during shit con, he was like 110K, like G-T-A-R-P, just killing it. Then he will like drop down to 60. You know, he's streaming at like midnight to like 7AM. Degenerate schedule. And then he was at shit con. He's like, ah, yeah, I'm fucking washed, dude. Like I got no content. It's like, he's mostly saying it in like an ironic way, but I think he like part of him, like sees it. I, he's not blind. He sees the fucking numbers. So they're all depressed and all thinking about it. Are you depressed? No, cause you know what? And I, this is what I realized is what I did. I hit the subathon fucking the largest penis on Mount Rushmore. Yeah. And then I pivoted. What? Made the yard, made mogul merch. And now all of my like self happiness is in those projects. Yeah. You are, you sort of invested not your money. Well, it's your money to an extent, but mostly your emotional self into different buckets. What percentage of your happiness is in the yard? You diversified. What percent? The yard happiness is, it's like a solid, like, like 12. Okay. That's pretty good. Out of what? It's on the 300. 300? Out of a hundred? 12%. What did you say? Out of 1 million. I just don't, I- 1 million credits and it's 12 of them. 12%. Yeah. I don't know. I think- That's pretty good. I think that you struggle to think critically about your own. See? That's what I'm saying right there. You started talking and he instantly was playing drums. I know. Like it's like- Yeah. So what I'm saying is that, right? How is it? Now you're an ape. Oh, a little head action. Wow. That was pretty good. That was catchy. Thanks, guys. You really got it. Anyway, they're all the press except for me. Yeah. Wow. I think- Who is the happiest streamer? I'm confused about so much of this. Nobody. It's a fucking- You know, it would be like the gamers. Like Tyler 1. Like the people who literally show up to play a video game they love. Like 10s. Shroud's probably happy because he just shows up and just plays whatever game he wants. I'm going to just pause this for a second. So I guess I was supposed to react to this. And sorry. So sometimes instead of reacting, I suppose I just listen. So let's just take a look at this too. So I saw that this was not the only. So I guess Ludwig and co. We're talking about all streamers being depressed. And then there was this article, I think yesterday in the Wall Street Journal about Twitch live streamers talking about how playing games is hard work. And then like aching back stress and weight gain or job hazards for video gamers and others who perform online for hours a day in front of an audience. For the most, the money isn't even that good. So you don't have to do this performing online. This is just the job hazards for gaming. You don't even have to be a streamer. You can still get aching back stress and weight gain. So I wanted to share with you guys. So here's what I think about this stuff. So this guy was talking about this hedonistic treadmill or the disease of more or whatever. So at this point at Healthy Gamer, we've worked with hundreds of content creators. And here's basically what we've learned. So the first thing to understand about mental health and content creators and burnout and stuff, I've done burnout work at hospitals. I've done it at law firms. I've done it at investment banks, private equity firms. I've done it at colleges. And so the first thing to understand is that there are some aspects of burnout that are specific to a particular industry. And then there are some aspects of burnout that are actually common. So a big thing that's going on with streamers nowadays is when they say like, oh, we're all depressed. I think there's legitimacy to that. We'll get to that in a second. But the first thing to understand is that there are some aspects of burnout that may be applicable to everyone, whether you're a college student or you work at an investment bank or you're a streamer. But one of the things that we really have learned is that technology and the situations that it creates, including streaming, have a set of specific challenges that are common within that industry. And those tend to be a little bit different from standard kinds of burnout. So here's basically what happens with a streamer. OK, you start out with like, you start streaming, right? And at the beginning, it's fun. You've got like five viewers. You're doing it on the side. It's not like a part of your job or anything like that. You're going to show up on chat. Like three people show up. You all are vibing. They're having a good time. You're having a good time. There's no expectations about it. You're just doing it because it's fun. So that's like the beginning of the streamer lifecycle. OK, so here's the streamer lifecycle. It starts out, you're small, no expectations, whatever. Then you start growing. And then maybe you start making a little bit of money. And that's super exciting at the beginning, right? Like this is happening. It's a real thing. Your Twitch chat is loving you. Your stream is growing. People are posting about it. You get a clip on LSF. Like, yay, right? So 100 viewers, 200 viewers, 300 viewers. Maybe you get rated by someone. You're up to like 1,000 viewers. And then the first realization of streaming sets in. And that is this axiom. If you're not growing, you're dying. So then your mind starts to think, OK, I've got two options. Like either I'm growing or I'm dying, right? That's what happens on the internet. It's what happens in social media. It's like either people are growing or they're dying. And this becomes a serious problem because once you start creating content and like your content does well, this is the tricky thing. Why is it doing well? You don't know, right? Like you never really understand. It's not like you have, you can do a biopsy to Twitch chat and figure out what's doing well and what isn't. Like something about what you're doing is kind of like organic and it's free and it's fun and people seem to be liking it. And if you've got to be growing, otherwise you're dying. So how do you grow more? You're not really sure because you don't really understand what's responsible for your growth in the first place. And so faced with this kind of idea of you're not, if you're not growing, you're dying. Then what happens is you're like, I don't know how to consistently grow. Right? And this is where the first phase of burnout kind of happens, which is like, I can't consistently grow. I don't know what this formula is, but what I can control, what is within my control to affect growing or dying is how much I stream. So if I farm streaming, right? Like if I just stream for 10 hours a day, 12 hours a day, if I do this, if I do that, if I just stream more, if I give more of myself to this thing, then my chances of growing are greater than my chances of dying. That's the only thing we can really figure out as streamers is that I can increase the amount of time I spend on something to become more successful. So they start to give of themselves to the stream, right? And in really drastic situations, you end up with cases like Ice Poseidon, where like, you know, he gave everything he had to his stream and it did not end well. So you have to grow or you're dying. That's phase one. So you give of yourself and then you start to burn out. Phase two is you're kind of established. You're like, you're a streamer now. Now there's a financial incentive and like you're sort of like, you've quit your job, you're making enough money, you've made it as a streamer. So this is like where the gravy train is rolling in, right? You're making some money, you're paying your bills, people are vibing with you, you roll out your merch, like everything's going great. And so you should be happy at that point, right? No, no, no. Here's where the second revelation of streaming comes in. The sand in your hourglass is running out because no streamer lasts forever. So at the first phase, you're growing or dying, but eventually all organisms come to an end. Death is inevitable, right? You're not going to be like a 60-year-old streamer because that's what happens to streamers. So then what happens is streamers start to like think like, oh my God, I better milk this before I get small. There's going to be an inevitable reduction in my viewer count. And so I've got to milk it for as long as I can because I don't know if this is going to be around a year from now. I don't know if everyone's going to leave me a year from now. There's a lot of other things going into that. But then the sand in the hourglass starts running out. So then what you have to do is like, can you cut back on your stream hours? No, no, no. Now that you've started to be successful, if you start to cut back, people will leave, someone else will grow, it's going to be GG. So you better make the money while you can. You better grow while you can because who knows when there's going to be someone who's funnier, sexier, more intelligent, more capable than you are who starts streaming and then they're going to take your viewers. So now you're trapped, right? Because this is an opportunity that will run out by now because this sale ends at the end of the month. You have three days. If you order in the next 72 hours, you will get an additional 20% off. And then that opportunity will never come back to you ever again. And then everything that you've invested in the streaming, because let's remember that you kind of quit your job, you dropped out of school and all that kind of stuff. You don't have any option B. So now like the sand in the hourglass is running out. So you better go as hard as you can for as long as you can before it's too late. So now there's a fear, there's an uncertainty, there's a paranoia that all of your opportunity will be gone. Then you enter the third phase of streaming, the third phase of burnout in the streamer life cycle. And that's when like you've grown so big that suddenly like you feel trapped. I know it sounds kind of weird, but at some point you sort of figure out what the internet wants from you. And when you started out streaming, it was like streaming for fun, right? You did what you wanted to do and the internet responded to it. But then over time, what happens is like your audience has certain expectations. They expect quality from you. They expect perfection from you. They expect the same formula because that's how you succeed, right? You don't have like a successful content creator who is like cooking one day and playing wow the next day and then like, you know, talking about lecturing about calculus the third day. Streamers have a particular niche. And generally speaking, the more that you support that niche, the more you grow. But the more that you support that niche and the more you grow because of that niche, the more trapped you become. And so the third phase of burnout is like you've got a million followers and you have big streams, but you can't do what you feel like anymore because everyone wants you to be a particular thing, right? And we see this with like a lot of streamers. It's not just streamers. It even happens with celebrities who get like typecast, right? So like that's the current incarnation of typecasting a celebrity. It's like a streamer gets trapped by the content that they create. And then they fall into this problem where they can't really like, they don't want to do it anymore. It doesn't feel fun anymore. It's not organic. It's forced. But you can't stop because people expect it from you and like you just got to keep going. And so that's the third stage of burnout. So this is like the burnout life cycle for streamers that we have discovered after, you know, working with hundreds of streamers. We've discovered that there's actually like a specific and common thing within streaming as an industry that's different from like working at a law firm, for example. And this is what it looks like. On top of that, there are these things that I call amplifiers. So interlaced through all of this that amplifies the burnout at each step of the way is social media. So this is like a real problem because at every step of the way, social media and comparison are always happening because at each step of the way, there's like some kind of comparison that makes each of those three stages worse. When you're growing, there's someone else who's growing more than you are. When the sand in the hourglass is running out, when you're in phase two, you see other streamers that are like you that begin to die. And then you're like, oh my God, like this person is fading away into nothingness, and that's going to be me next. Or other people are blowing up while you are just growing. So you see other people who are eclipsing you. There's another wow streamer now. Now there's a lost arc streamer. Oh my God, can you imagine how many MMO streamers started shitting their pants when Asmongold stopped streaming wow? Just think about that for a second. I'm not blaming anyone in any of that just to be clear, because people should stream what they want to stream. But Asmongold is coming for us. He's coming for our followers. That's the way that streamers reacted to him changing games. And so even at the second phase, it's like, oh my God, what happens if another streamer pops up and they grow bigger than I do? Or a big streamer decides to get into that game. Am I going to grow? Am I not going to grow? Then you end up in the third phase where you're looking around, you've got a bunch of followers. A lot of people are liking your tweets. You start attracting hate farmers, by the way. So that's the other thing that happens when you get really big, right? Is there's a group of people that are hate farmers. And so these are people that have YouTube channels or Twitch reacts or whatever. And the purpose of their content, the food for their content, is reacting or trashing you as a very large streamer. So there's a bunch of stuff that goes into this in terms of social media and comparison that just amplifies all three layers of burnout. And if you want to know why are people like this, I totally get what people are saying. Everyone's depressed and streaming. The Wall Street Journal, it's even penetrated into mainstream media. And the Wall Street Journal is writing an article about it. And why is that? It's because there's a particular thing going on. This is something that's a common shared experience that most content creators have. And so we try to help people with this stuff. I think that this is part of the problem is that you can go see a psychiatrist or therapist, and I know a lot of streamers that have really benefited from seeking mental health treatment, which I think is fantastic. And at the same time, no one is going to teach you this in medical school. They're not going to teach you the content creator burnout lifecycle, because this is a new thing. There have not been studies published on this. So the best that we've got is noobs like us actually working with these people for a year or two. And this is what we conclude. So thankfully, Twitch is pretty supportive about this kind of thing. So this stream sponsored by Twitch, not really. But they're good. I think they recognize that this is a problem, and they've been pretty supportive. So we're grateful for that. And I guess you guys know it, but we have a content creator program. And this is legit. This is a real thing. I know it's kind of also different, because usually we talk about y'all as the audience. So our target audience here at Healthy Gamer is the chat. It's not the streamer. And we sometimes interview big streamers and stuff. We do that. But that also is not about streaming. It's more about showing y'all that these are regular normal human beings who have regular normal human struggles. So I think it's anyway. So if you guys want to understand, I completely agree that streamer mental health is tough. And we've seen a lot of burnout. And I think part of the problems is that there are new and specific things that relate to streamer mental health that can be acted on in a specific and targeted way. And a lot of what we try to do is teach people, like, OK, how do you learn? And I think Ludwig even talked about this. So how do you diversify your sense of identity and value outside of streaming? So this is a core thing. When your identity is tied up in your view count, like how many people are watching, then as the view count goes up and down, your identity goes up and down with it. And the problem is because of the way that metrics work. So in the history of humanity, you've never been able to quantify the value of a human being as easily as you can today. So sure, like maybe a hundred years ago, you had people who could quantify wealth in some way. You had kings and you had nobles and stuff like that. Sure. But you also had, like, regular people who were, like, living on a street. And it's like, how much is each human being worth? It's like kind of weird because it wasn't quantified, right? You've got the more popular people, you've got the less popular people. And like, sure, there's clearly a hierarchy, but it's all kind of fuzzy. There's not like a number to it. And now what we've managed to do with the internet is we've like quantified our value as human beings. People are concerned about the social credit score in China. Like, the social credit score happened here in the West way earlier than it happened in China, right? It had to do with things like, this is how you get like these choosing beggars. We're like, hey, I'd like to get a cupcake. And then the people like, OK, cool, like it's $2 for a cupcake. And they're like, I have I have 100,000 Instagram followers. You should give it to me for free. This is my value as a human being. And it is worth more than $2. So give me a cupcake, please. Thank you very much. We have quantified value of human beings, right? We've already done it. It's there. And so now that we've like kind of done this, it's like messing up our society. It's kind of bizarre. We've done it already. And so now you've got streamers that are investing their sense of identity with a particular metric, right? That's what I'm worth as a human being. And if I behave in a particular way, so many more people like me, I get more likes, I get more followers, I get more subs. Fantastic. And this happens in other parts of our life, too. So this doesn't is not just streamer specific. So this is a root issue in yoga called ahankara, ahamkar, or the ego or the sense of identity. As a human being, when you identify and become one with some attribute of your life, your value as a human being goes up and down depending on that metric, right? So me personally, I'm invested in one thing, which is GME. And as GME goes up, I feel like I'm on top of the world. And as GME goes down, I feel like I've wasted all my time and my energy and my life savings into something that will blow up in my face, right? And so that's what we do as human beings. For students, right? It's grades. Oh, I didn't get good grades, therefore I'm not a good human being. Sometimes in some devastating situations, it's also the way that we're treated by people like narcissistic parents, like, oh, my narcissistic parent is mad at me, therefore I am a bad human being. So we peg our identity and our values as human beings to all kinds of metrics. And what happens when you're a content creator and streamer is that it becomes so easy for your brain to quantify your value by pegging it to these external things. So if you want to become healthier, if you want to become freer and ironically make better content, because that's, I think, what we've observed as well, because remember, it's the thing that caused you to explode in the first place, that authenticity, that lack of expectation, that like, I'm going to show up on the internet and just like have a good time that causes people to respond the best anyway. So like, it's all, I mean, there's like so much that's changing. And so you have to de-identify from, you know, certain external metrics to find inner peace, whether you're a student, whether you have a narcissistic parent, whether you're a streamer.