 What I hear from them is like when they were 15, they had acne, and they were overweight, and they went to school, and they got bullied. But you know what? Over the internet, they're none of those things. So the internet is actually really amazing because it is like in the way that we talk about justice being blind. Like when you're playing with someone over the internet, they care about you for who you are. They don't care about how much money your parents make. They don't care about what car you drive. They don't care about what shoes you wear. They don't care about what you look like. They care about you for who you are. Like when you do something in the game, and like 15 year olds who play video games online talk philosophy. I don't know if you guys know this. But they talk about philosophy, and they talk about their hopes and dreams. So I think what happens is the connections that we form over the internet are authentic. They really can be. And what's going on, especially in high school kids, is like, it's hard. When you get bullied at school, like if you get bullied on a Monday, like what happens on Tuesday? You get up, you go to school, and those people are still going to be in your class. You don't have any control over them. So you have this online world where if someone is mean to you, you just never talk to them. So why wouldn't you want to spend time with those people? You get to pick the friends that share the interests that you share. So like this is the thing. That's not a game anymore. You guys get that? It's like real community.