 My name is Alok Kanodjian. I'm a psychiatrist who practices in Boston, Massachusetts. In my day job, I'm an addiction psychiatrist at a place called McLean Hospital. I'm also faculty at Harvard Medical School, where I'm an instructor in psychiatry. I'd like to share with you guys a little bit about how I got into helping people with video game addiction. It actually starts with me when I was pretty young. I grew up playing video games, played a lot of video games when I was in middle school and high school, and almost failed out of college for playing too many video games. My first year of college, I had less than a 2.0 GPA. Second year wasn't a whole lot better. I did things like slept through my Spanish final because I was playing too many video games the night before. And finally ended up graduating with about a 2.5 or 2.6 GPA and really started to try to figure out what was going on in my life and what was the deal with playing all these games. And took me a couple years, but I ended up going to medical school and ended up training to become a psychiatrist here in Boston at a place called Massachusetts General Hospital and McLean Hospital, both of which are Harvard Medical School teaching affiliates. And so really had an amazing opportunity to become a psychiatrist, had some brilliant teachers. And I'm grateful that I was able to train there because they really taught me a lot about psychiatry and human beings and how to help people. And while I was training, I kind of went to these people who were kind of the brightest minds in psychiatry and like experts in the field. And I asked them, can you tell me a little bit about video game addiction or can you tell me how to help people who have problems with video games? And none of them really seemed to know. And the more people that I asked, the more I realized like, oh, the leaders in the field of psychiatry are all in their 50s, 60s, and 70s. And so they've actually never played a video game. The people that teach us psychiatry, the people who are experts in depression and anxiety and addictions are all sort of at the end of their career or middle of their career. And they've actually never really played a video game. So they don't really know what it's like. And so then I was trying to figure out, how can I learn about this? Because my teachers, they don't really know too much about it. And so I started just talking to gamers. I started working with gamers. I started talking to gamers from all over the world through the internet and people from the Middle East and South Korea and North America. And I just started working with them and trying to figure out, trying to understand why do you play video games? And the more that I understood about talking to them, the more I learned about video game addiction, and the more that I got, the more I learned about being a psychiatrist and how to help people, I realized maybe I actually can help these people. Because a lot of them had seen psychiatrists or therapists, but what happens is they get diagnosed with something like depression or anxiety. And they get started on an antidepressant and they go home and they take their pill and they keep playing video games. Because their problem, while they are depressed, their problem really isn't that they are depressed. Their problem is that they play too many video games. And so I started to work with these people and tried to help them. And as the years went by and I worked with more and more gamers, I started to get better at it. And so now I feel like I know a little bit about what I'm talking about. But I have to admit that the disease is relatively new. We don't really know a whole lot about it. There hasn't been years or decades of research the way that there has been on cancer treatment or treatment for depression. But at this point, I do feel confident that I can help you some, or at least that's my hope. My hope is that I can take those years of experience helping gamers and helping parents of gamers and helping spouses of gamers. In my years of training as a psychiatrist and to be able to put those two together and in some way. And I really hope that I can.