 I don't know how to like put this in a question, but can you address the I need Dr. K kind of type that people are like, you're the only one who will like help. Yeah, so I'm going to ask permission for to play a clip for you guys from someone. So there was so so you know, so I do coaching. And we also have coaching groups right so you guys can sign up and depending on the role of the dice. You can get paired with different people. So I run a group. And the group ended recently. And so we were just kind of offering feedback about the end of the group. And I couldn't have said it better myself, but one person was like, I came to this group because I thought Dr. K was the only one that could help me like I was convinced that he was the only one and he understood me so well. And he's he's the only one that could help me after 16 weeks of working with Dr. K. I realized that I never needed him. And that like really what I needed, like the only person I needed was myself. And that's the truth. And that's like the best feedback that I could get is everyone has this perception that what you guys need is me but like that's you don't need me. You know it's it's kind of like just because you watch a cooking show and there's like an amazing, you know, like, like, there's amazing five star chef or whatever who's like making this who like sure that food that dude makes delicious food but there's like delicious food all over the place. I know that a lot of people feel like I'm the only one for them. And believe me it's flattering but I think you guys don't know me as well as I do. And I think you'd be surprised at what you're capable of is if you put your mind to it and work with just any there like really any therapist. It's about what you guys put in not about what we put in. The last thing that I want to say I'm going to read something to you guys. Okay, so there's a post on our subreddit right now that says today's chat with Zach and his father Dave is probably the most incredible thing healthy gamer has ever done. So I want you guys to think about this for a second. What makes that incredible. Because it's not me. Right. So like I'm the constant and healthy gamer but what makes that so impactful is like Zach and Dave. Like sure I'm the common element but if you really think about it like why are like the reason that some things are impactful and other things are not impactful if it was me then everything we would do would be like equal. But it's not. It's the person who comes on that makes things impactful or not. That's where the money is. That's where the value is. The real value comes from you. You just think it comes from me because you always see my face. But if you really think about it. The bulk of healing doesn't come from me. It comes from the people who come on stream. It comes from you. And so for those of you who think that you need Dr. K like I don't doubt that I could help you. But I really am like not that special. The thing is what I mean I fail too. And what what causes me to fail or succeed depends on the person sitting across from me because I can't fix them. They have to fix themselves. I'm just going to help. And so the real thing that you need for your success is not me is you. If you show up and you give it your best effort with a therapist I think you're going to do a good job. And that's what we hear from people. Right. Like even Zach on on Wednesday stream was like yeah I started seeing a therapist and I've gotten a little bit better. Turns out he's probably gotten a lot better. But like he didn't need me. Like I don't think any of y'all need me specifically. I know it sounds weird. But the real money is on on you. It's like there's no I mean that doesn't it's just how it is.