 So your engagement with technology doesn't just have to do with laziness or discipline or you sucking at life. It has to do with a lot of like the state of your mind. Your internal emotional state, your fatigue state, all those kinds of things. So I wasted five to six hours watching YouTube and now I don't want to do anything anymore. So I have some homework that I needed to do over the weekend, but instead of utilizing my time to do stuff, I just blew five hours watching YouTube and now I hate myself and I don't feel like I deserve anything or anyone. I've tried to be productive several times and now that has failed, I don't want to do anything anymore. I want to be perfect like everybody else when it comes to their lives, but I find that hard. And I want to cry when I can't do anything that other people can do. I hate my life because I'm worth nothing and I feel like I'm incapable of everything that is presented to me. I want to get rid of this thing of not being productive and all that. This happens frequently as well, and I'm hopeless about it. I hate life. So sometimes, instead of doing what we need to do, we end up watching lots of YouTube or something else, right? Play video games, spend time on Reddit, like whatever, whatever, pick your poison. The truth of the matter is though, sometimes it's like we have stuff that we want to accomplish and YouTube kind of gets in the way. And then what happens is when we slip up, right, by like five hours of YouTube, we hate ourselves. And then we don't feel like we deserve anything. We want to be perfect, but we're the very opposite of perfect. Our mind becomes very, very black and white. It's like, I can't believe I wasted a whole day. I want to get rid of this thing. I'm tired of not being productive. I'm tired of not being productive. I'm tired of not being productive anymore. I want to be productive again. Help me be productive again. So what do we do in this situation? So I was kind of reading this. My first thought is, well, I wonder what's going on in someone's brain. So I didn't really know. I was like, okay, what is watching five hours of YouTube do to your brain? So I know like long-term effects of chronic technology usage, social media usage, video games, things like that. But at the five hour mark, what's going on in someone's brain? So the first thing that I did is I asked that question. And the answers that I saw were actually terrifying. So the first thing that we're going to do is just like do a quick dip into neuroscience. Okay, so there's some, we're going to talk about, oh yeah, so let's start with this. So there is this field called consumer neuroscience, which terrifies me as a psychiatrist. Because what this means is that there's like a group of people out there who are studying the brain using things like psychometrics, functional neuroimaging, and behavioral data to figure out how to get you to like buy stuff and continue using the internet. Okay, so the impact of motivation to watch YouTube's objective nor is behavioral control information success model to watching YouTube engagement. Now, this is important. Measuring dorsolateral prefrontal cortex signals predict the success of merchandising elements at the point of sale. Brain activity forecasts video engagement in an internet attention market. So here's something that terrifies me. Your free will is now known as the internet attention market. And there's a lot of research out there about how to get to the internet attention market. So you're going to have to be a little bit more careful about that. And there's a lot of research out there about how to get people how to take this internet attention market and engage people with it and sell things. Now, this is what's really interesting. So the key thing that I kind of took away from this that I thought was a little bit different is a lot of research on the anterior insula. So let's try to understand the neuroscience real quick. So here's what I thought of when I looked at this. I was like, okay, I can understand that people get distracted and they don't want to, you know, start doing homework. It's boring. So you open up YouTube because you feel a little bit distracted. But then what I got kind of curious about is why do we waste five hours on YouTube? Because it's not even fun after the first hour. What's going on there? And that's when I sort of discovered that there's all kinds of interesting stuff. And one of the key pieces of neuroscience here is the anterior insula. And the anterior insula is actually heavily involved with insight. It's also involved with the orgasm, which is kind of interesting. But it involves a lot of awareness. And a lot of our consciousness comes from the anterior insula. So when we're kind of thinking about, okay, what do I want to do when we're regulating ourselves, when we think a particular way about ourselves? Like a lot of this emotional awareness of what we're doing and being conscious is the anterior insula. And what we know from all this commercial neuroscience is that buying things online and spending more time on the internet is inversely correlated with anterior insular activity. So what that sort of means is that the more aware I am, the less likely I am to engage with YouTube for five hours at a stretch. And actually what tends to happen is as we use technology, what this internet attention market is doing is finding ways to make us less aware. And what do I mean by finding ways to make us less aware? So when I watch a particular video, so right now, like I'm aware of my surroundings, what I need to do today, my mind is tracking all kinds of stuff. When I watch a video, the engagement level of that video is in how much it allows me to forget. Right? So my, you know, poison of the month this month is watching these like survival, catching, foraging, eating, cooking things with fires. Right? It's like some dude who's like out in the wilderness, who's like making fires and catching things and hunting for food and stuff like that. And it's like, that's like, when I watch that video for 30 minutes, like I completely forget about everything else that's going on in my life. And my anterior insula shuts down. And there's data that shows that the less active your anterior insula is, the more likely you are to engage in this internet attention marketplace, the more likely you are to watch YouTube for hour four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. So this is like the first thing that you've got to understand is that if you're in this situation and you're blaming yourself for being so lazy instead of being so motivated, like I don't think you really realize how outgunned you really are. Did you get a little distracted? Sure. But there's a whole emerging field of consumer neuroscience, which people are publishing papers about and having conferences on and things like that, where people are like literally learning like, like, this is terrifying. I'm going to just show you all this again. Like, look at this. This one. I don't know if you all. So, you know, we're using neuroimaging to figure out how to engage people with point of sale devices. Right. It's kind of weird. Like there's so much stuff going on here. That's super terrifying. So now let's try to understand a little bit about, okay, if I want to, like, let's go back to the issue at hand, which is I need to do homework and I can't because I got distracted on YouTube for five hours. So we're going to break this apart into a couple of things. The first thing is why do we start watching something or start engaging with technology? The second thing is why do we persist in engaging with technology? The third thing is what does long-term engagement with technology do to our brain and our motivation and our self-esteem? And how do we pull everything? How do we kind of tie everything together at the end? Okay. So first thing, why do we start using technology? Very, very, very well understood. I feel incredibly confident in what I'm about to say. When I'm trying to do homework, I don't want to do the homework, but chances, whether I do the homework or don't do the homework actually depends on my internal emotional state. The more confident in myself I feel, the less fatigued I am, the more I care about myself, and the more positive emotions I feel, the more likely I am to do the homework. How do we know this? Well, we know that when we reach for technology, what it tends to do is suppress our negative emotional circuitry. And so generally speaking, the worse we feel about ourselves, the more likely we are to use technology. The more fatigued we are, the more likely we are to use technology. This is part of the reason why, especially like a lot of these financial decisions are getting worse. So if you look at people who are like buying crypto or Wall Street bets or even like online gambling sites, the reason all three of these things are so successful from a provider's standpoint, we're not talking about the internet, we're talking about the internet. We're not talking about the purchaser. We're talking about like the exchange or retail trading like Robinhood or like all these things are so successful because they allow you to make decisions when you're fatigued. So it used to be that markets were open only at a particular time. So if you wanted to make a trade, you had to open it like you had to like go through some hoops as well as there was a particular time that you had to make trades. So you couldn't be like drunk at 3 a.m. in the morning and spend $100,000 by buying some meme stock. But what we've discovered is that as our brains become more dysregulated and as we can make purchases in the wee hours of the morning when we're drunk, when we're high, when we're tired, whatever, it leads us to make bad purchases and people are profiting off of this. So your engagement with technology doesn't just have to do with laziness or discipline or you sucking at life. It has to do with a lot of like the state of your mind, your internal emotional state, your fatigue state, all those kinds of things. That's why we start using. And what our brain has figured out is I feel bad about myself. Let me engage in this technology which will self-soothe and shut down my negative emotional circuitry. Then what happens? That's how we start using technology. Then what happens? Like, why do we end up using technology for five hours? So as technology becomes more engaging, we start to see suppression of the anterior insular cortex, which is our awareness. So then we don't realize that one hour became two, became three, became four, became five. And I love this personally in the turn-based strategy games. Right? So if you guys play turn-based strategy game, you'll understand this very well. One more term, one more turn, one more turn. I'm going to load up a game of Civ IV Fall from Heaven at 5 p.m. on a Friday, and I'm going to come back to awareness Saturday morning at dawn. Right? That's what technology does. We lose that insular cortex stuff. Then what happens is we blame ourselves because now it's like, oh my God, I've stayed up all night. I'm so undisciplined. And then what happens is we start to hate ourselves. And then what happens is we start to hate ourselves. Okay? Like, look at this language, incapable of everything. I want to be perfect. I've tried to be productive. And so all of that negative emotion comes roaring back. And when all that negative emotion comes roaring back, that in turn leads to things like procrastination. Because it's hard to focus on homework when internally you're filled with self-loathing. Right? Like, that kind of makes sense, right? The more self-loathing I feel, the harder it is to do homework. And then we call this thing procrastination. But what we know is that a lot of procrastination has to do with incorrect emotional processing and incorrect emotional awareness. We just call it procrastination because we're not even aware of what we feel on the inside. And at the end of the cycle, we feel so bad about ourselves that we're teeing ourselves up for failure next time around. So once I feel really terrible about myself, do I sit there and process up my emotions, talk to my friends, go see a therapist, work with a coach? Do I like actually take this kind of situation and really work through it and undo all the emotional damage? Of course not. I make a post on the internet. People give me solutions. They're like, hey, use this task management system, which can be useful. Don't get me wrong. But none of that emotional stuff gets addressed. And if none of that emotional stuff gets addressed, you can use whatever task management systems you want to. If you wake up in the morning and you feel like you're a waste of a human being, it's going to get really hard to be motivated. Right? Because what kind of stuff motivates people? Inspiration motivates people. Excitement motivates people. Confidence motivates people. But at the end of this whole cycle, we're beating ourselves up. We have a bunch of negative emotion and the whole cycle repeats. So what do you do in this kind of situation? So a couple of simple things. The first is recognize your black and white thinking. So if you're thinking in all or nothing statements, if you're saying, you know, I'm a complete waste of space. Other people are perfect. I can't succeed in anything I do. Black and white thinking is a sign of emotional activity in the amygdala and the hippocampus. It means that you're emotionally charged and you're not thinking logically. It means you're thinking emotionally. Right? So if you think about people who use a lot of black and white language, they're very emotional thinkers. They think they're logical, but they're really not logical. Right? Because like the truth of the matter is the world is a nuanced place and very few things are black and white. Like it's just not how reality is. There isn't a religion that is better than all the other religions or a religion that is worse than all the other religions. Maybe that's a charged statement that's going to get in, invoke a lot of black and white thinking and engage emotions. If you responded to that and now you feel emotions, you'll kind of see what I'm saying. Right? But people who talk that way tend to be very black and white thinkers. And if you challenge them on that, they will get very emotional. They'll use logic, sure, but like behind the logic is a bunch of emotion. And so you've got to decompress that emotion. So notice the black and white thinking and then start to ask yourself, okay, how did I start to feel so bad about myself? Start to notice a little bit about when I'm sitting down to do homework, how do I feel about that? And this is the key thing. If you're one of these people, I can guarantee you what you're going to say in that moment is who cares how I feel? I need to do it. Who cares what I feel? And it's by making that statement, you lose emotional awareness because now you're not exploring it. You're actively devaluing it. And when you actively devalue it and when you actively suppress it and ignore it, then it starts to manifest in other ways like procrastination, lack of motivation, spending five hours watching YouTube. Because negative emotions have to be dealt with. They will deal with you and keep you in the same place. They will deal with you and keep dealing with you until you deal with them. So you've got to become more emotionally aware. Become aware of your black and white thinking. Start to ask yourself questions like, how do I feel about doing homework today? Do I want to do it? Do I not want to do it? Why don't I want to do it? Well, I need to do it. Who cares what I want? Well, I care what you want. What you want should be important to you. And oddly enough, by acknowledging what you want or what you care about and giving that value, you actually make it easier to do the task. I'll give you all a simple example. So let's say that... I'll just give you all kind of an example. So I was out a couple weekends ago with my kids. And one of them wanted to eat something that wasn't available. So they're like, dad, I want this food. And then I've got two options. I can say, I don't care what you want. You're going to eat what we give you. Right? You have to eat what we've got. Like we've only got one thing we can't get it. So like, it doesn't matter what you want. You've got to eat what we give you. Or I can say, hey, I understand what you want. I'm sorry I can't give it to you. I'll do my best to get it for you next time. But I didn't know that you wanted that earlier. And I'd really appreciate it if you ate this anyway. And I'm going to do my level best to get it for you next time. How does that sound? Which one do you think leads to like better success? In both cases, the kid may end up eating it. But in one case, they're going to eat way better than the other. Right? Does that kind of make sense? So we have to acknowledge like, and this is where like sometimes, you know, we make sacrifices because we have to make sacrifices. But it's really nice to acknowledge the sacrifice and be honest about it. Right? It's really nice to say, hey, like, I'm sorry that you have to do this. It really sucks. I really appreciate that you're doing it. I'm grateful. Like that's going to lead to better stuff down the road. But that's not how we talk to ourselves. Need to do it. When you need to do something over the weekend, you're going to end up procrastinating until the last minute. That's how it works. So unfortunately, it's really common to like get ourselves distracted with technology usage. It turns out there's a lot going on in the brain. It starts with why we start to use technology, which tends to be the most common reason is like emotional suppression. And not having to face our emotions. Then we get sucked into it and we blame ourselves for watching it for five hours when we don't even acknowledge that there's a whole ton of like people who are doing consumer neuroscience to keep you there for five hours. There are people with PhDs and MDs and economists and all kinds of stuff working to keep you on that website for five hours because there's an attention marketplace. And what is being bought or sold in the attention marketplace? You are. And then we blame ourselves. And with a complete lack of compassion and a lot of black and white thinking and self blame, we set ourselves up for failure tomorrow. Because then tomorrow if I'm a POS who wastes all my time watching YouTube and I'm filled with self loathing, how am I ever going to be inspired to actually like do my homework? Never going to happen. It's going to be a slog every single time. Every single time you bring yourself to do your homework. It's like you're dragging cattle. It's so hard. And then since it takes so much effort for you to even do homework for a little while, you're mentally fatigued, mentally exhausted. And then what do you think you reach for? Technology. Because now you're fatigued. And so it's super, super challenging. Unfortunately, increasingly common. And why is it increasingly common? Is it because people are becoming lazier and more disciplined on the whole? No. It is because there is an attention marketplace which people are getting very savvy to and learning how to manipulate. And they realize that if you spend six hours on YouTube instead of Twitch or Twitch instead of TikTok, one of those platforms gets money and the other two don't. And all the platforms want money and they're happy to give you the content that you want to. I don't think necessarily the platforms are nefarious, by the way. I think a lot of times the platforms are out there trying to do good. They're like, hey, we're just entertainers. Right? We're not worried about that kind of stuff. But as this stuff is evolving, it's starting to get out of control. And sometimes we end up being the victims. And that's where you can rage at the platforms all you want to. I don't know how effective that's going to be. This is where ultimately I think you've got to understand what's going on in my mind and what can I do about it. So hopefully that helps if you're struggling with productivity and end up using a technology platform for like six hours and procrastinating.