 And tomorrow, do I want to be someone that gets their feeling of being connected and whole through a parasocial relationship or through a real life relationship? Who do I want to be? Hello, my Twitch addition, I'm assuming this is addiction, is tearing me apart. Hello, I just want to share with you my daily struggles with my Twitch and gaming addiction. Since I was eight years old, I've been watching how other people play video games from a local TV show. Oh, that's dope. I'm an introvert and I have social and communication problems, very shy, etc. Now I'm 19. I can literally watch Twitch all day long. I have my favorite streamers and in my worst times I can feel pretty bad if I miss a live. Oh, interesting. It's like I'm missing something important. The bonds are too strong, the bonds that I don't have with my IRL friends. I feel like all my social needs are covered when I watch these streamers talking to me. I love to be passive. I don't really have to talk to anyone at the same time. I feel surrounded by people. I don't like using the chat. I don't meet new people. I know it's not a healthy relation. The one I have with Twitch, I'm a freelance and I work from home. I set up my own schedule and if I have too much work, I start to feel really anxious when I don't have time to watch streams. I stop working if necessary and miss my deadlines. I don't like weekends because I have to make plans with IRL people and I feel like I'm losing time. I could spend watching my favorite streamer. When I look back, all the time spent watching streams really worth nothing, but when I watch the streams, I feel really good. As you may think, I feel pretty depressed when not watching streams. I'm losing real friends and experiences. I have a huge lack of motivation for anything not Twitch related. I'm also unable to make friends on this platform to get something good out of it. This is like the third time I realized this is going too far. I'm starting a detox plan to switch gears and get back on track again. I'm super anxious just thinking about it. If you have been in a similar situation, I'd love to hear what you did to get better. Thanks for reading. All right, so this is a fantastic post. It's unfortunate that this person is struggling this much, but there are a lot of really good things here. Props to you for making the post. Right, so we've got to be careful because when we feel like we're making a mistake in life, our mind will do anything to convince us that we're making a mistake in life. It'll try to keep you there. So this is tricky, but there's a part of this person's mind that I would bet money was like, don't make this post. It's a waste of your time. No one's going to be able to help you. You can figure it out on your own, or if you can't figure it out, no one can figure it out for you. Don't bother. There's the part of your mind that says don't bother. So the first thing that I want to commend this person for is actually making the post because they're stepping outside of their comfort zone. They're asking for help. They're being a little bit open-minded. They're noticing that this is a problem. They're accepting that's a problem. They're telling the whole internet that it's a problem. So they're owning it. Right, that's the first step. Accept that you have a problem. So good job, OP. Couple of other things to note, okay? So second thing is let's talk about psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive development. So this person has been watching video games since the age of eight, and they're now in their late 20s, right? So what this means is that the parts of your brain that enjoy social interaction or are capable of social interaction and get satisfied from real-life interactions are kind of rusty. Your brain has evolved to get social needs met through Twitch. So this is going to sound kind of weird, but there's something that I see, unfortunately, a lot as a psychiatrist called Death Grip Syndrome, which is when people masturbate for a long period of time, like years, and then when they actually have sex for the first time, they're not actually able to achieve climax through sexual intercourse. And it's because they've physically trained their body to climax in a particular kind of stimulation. And so it just takes time to rewire your neurons to get satisfied from this other kind of pleasure. And the weird thing that I've been seeing is it's not just physical, it's just the example that I use because it seems to relate to people, but it can be anything that our body acclimatizes to, right? So if we're kind of thinking about, even like my tolerance for spicy foods, if I grew up not eating spicy foods, it's going to be hard for me to tolerate eating spicy foods. And in that same way, so your brain has learned to receive social satisfaction from Twitch. So cognitively, you've developed that way. You've developed with parasocial relationships, so they feel more satisfying to you. Now, thousands of years from now, people may sort of philosophically debate, or even today, about whether online social relationships are better or not better. Maybe it's like a current judgment that our society holds. I don't know. But for now, if you want to engage more in the real world and you place more value on that, recognize that it's going to take some time for your brain to adapt to real world relationships. OK, so it's just going to take some time. So put yourself out there, go into each of those social interactions, recognizing that this is going to be harder for me, I'm not going to enjoy it as much. And it is one step towards the life that I want to live. And that's key, right? So here's the big thing to remember. Whether things are easy or hard, think about your dharma. What's my duty? What am I doing this for? So I'm doing this because on some level, I find these Twitch relationships to be insufficient. So today, let's say your friends want to make plans with you, right? So they're calling you, like, hey, do you want to hang out on Friday? There's a part of you that's like, I'm going to miss this stream. So just think for a second, pause for a second and ask yourself, you know, who do I want to be tomorrow? Like, am I going to miss the stream? Absolutely. Am I going to have less fun in real life? Absolutely. Am I going to love being here and watching the streamer live? Absolutely. Am I going to feel connected and whole by being on Twitch? Absolutely. And tomorrow, do I want to be someone that gets their feeling of being connected and whole through a parasocial relationship or through a real life relationship? Who do I want to be? It's not about what you get, it's about what you want to be. And as you navigate that, as you reflect on that, you'll start to gravitate towards real life. The last thing to kind of consider is that this person says that they have a huge lack of motivation. So we're going to highlight a couple of things in their text. OK, so I feel pretty depressed. I have a huge lack of motivation for anything not Twitch related. This is actually a great sentence. Because the last thing that you need to do to really crack this open is this feeling. I feel pretty bad if I miss a live stream. Why? What is it that you feel like you're missing? You know, like, and this is where I'd really encourage this person to stop and really think about what is it that they're missing by missing the stream? And really like understand, because I suspect that there's something else there that is like there's something under the surface. This feels like a some scar to me. Let me just read this again. I have in my worst times, I can feel pretty bad if I miss something live. So I'd start by asking yourself the question, like, what are you missing? And have you missed something live before? And what did you feel like? Because what this person is telling me here is that something bad happened that they missed live. And so the reason they need to watch is because they don't want that to happen again. They don't want to miss out again. This is the hurt of missing out once resurfacing. So your brain is telling you, hey, if you skip the stream, you're going to miss out again. Right? So like, you got to be careful about where that what's missing. What do you lose by not watching something? So I start to feel anxious when I feel like I won't have time to watch streams. There it is again. What are you anxious about? What is it that you're truly missing? I stop working if necessary and miss my deadline. So you're really getting something out of this, right? What is it that you're really getting? What is it that you're missing if you don't watch the stream? And this also, like, I would ask yourself, you know, what's the hunger that's being fulfilled by watching the stream? Because this kind of goes back to this idea that, like, you know, you're getting some need met. Right? So the reason that behaviors are reinforced is because they're doing something for us. So I would really think long and hard about, like, what is this behavior doing for me? What is it that I'm really missing? And don't listen to your logic. Your logic is telling you, oh, you're not missing anything. There are going to be a thousand of other streams. Like, oh, no, no, like, you're stupid. Like, don't worry about missing it. Like, there's nothing to miss. Like, it's empty. That's not going to help. Right? Because if you tell yourself that the emotional need is, like, not doesn't care about that logic, it's going to get its needs met. So the question is to really, like, ask yourself and pay attention to what are you missing? What's the cost of this? Why is it that you don't want to pay that cost? When have you paid that cost before? And when did you learn that streams are not missable? How did you discover that, like, this is something that my life revolves around? And you have to be really authentic with yourself and explore that. Absolutely something that I think a coach could help you with, by the way. I mean, is there something clinical here? Can you see a therapist? Sure. But I think we've just heard so many bad stories in this community about, you know, people going to see therapists and them saying, like, I'm addicted to Twitch and the therapist is, like, just watch Lesbro. You know, I'm not trying to... I know there are a lot of therapists out there who are getting wise real quick, but it's the kind of thing where, you know, someone made, like... I mean, I have colleagues that would diagnose you with depression and start you on an SSRI and send you home. We've heard that story a thousand times in this community. I'm not saying that you shouldn't, by all means, go get evaluated because there's other confounding factors, right? Maybe you do have depression. And so that's worth absolutely getting checked out. And at the same time, I really try to find someone, either yourself or someone else, who can help you kind of work through this stuff.