 Part of the reason why battle royales are so addictive, and people play them so much, is because of the denial of reward. The fact that you don't always win actually makes it, like, far more addicting. Alright, I don't feel enjoyment from video games anymore, and what can I do about it? I never have much of a social life, so I usually spend most of my time playing video games. But it's been about a decade of that, being the thing that I do in my free time. What I'm noticing now is I have a mental block when it comes to starting new games and playing one in general. I only manage to play games I get addicted to not enjoy. For example, CSGO. It's a time sink that I'm only ever able to play, and at this point I can only play games for the sake of playing them. So I was just wondering if there was a way for me to not only be able to start games I want to play, but enjoy them too. So this is a situation where someone's been playing games for ten years. They also have noticed that the only games that they can play are the ones that they don't enjoy, and they can't even start to play new games because they don't enjoy it anymore, and they actually want to learn how to enjoy games again. So we're going to start by sharing two or maybe three principles of neuroscience, and then we're going to go to some practical advice. So the first principle of neuroscience to understand, or maybe psychology, is that people have done numerous studies on why video games are addictive. And so when I say addictive, what that means is remember an addiction is something that reinforces a behavior. And this will get to principle neuroscience too in a second. But why games are addictive is actually the denial of reward. So what makes a game addictive is not winning, but the fact that you don't always win. So part of the reason that Battle Royales became so addictive, and in some parameters Fortnite for example is the most successful game ever in like some dimensions. So if you look at like the rate at which Fortnite dominated the market and how much money they made, how quickly, Fortnite like is number one in some parameters. And so why is that? Like what's the whole thing? Like wouldn't you think, like don't people like playing video games? But then you have a game like Fortnite where I think you have like a hundred players that are competing for one victory spot. And so I think part of what they sort of, I don't know that they sort of did this intentionally, but part of the reason why Battle Royales are so addictive and people play them so much is because of the denial of reward. So the fact that you don't always win actually makes it like far more addicting. So that has nothing to do with fun and we'll get to that in a second, okay? So first thing to understand is that the addiction aspect, playing a video game despite not enjoying it and like not being able to quit, despite not having fun, has to do with an addiction. And that has to do with like dopamine and our reinforcement kind of circuitry. So there's the mesolimbic circuit in the brain which sort of governs this and the main neurotransmitter is dopamine. And so that's like behavioral reinforcement and the denial of reward strongly stimulates that system. It's also why gambling is so addictive because you don't always win, right? So the random reinforcement schedule is more addicting than the consistent reinforcement schedule. The second thing to understand, if it's addictive, why don't I have fun? So the circuits in your brain that involve dopamine reward circuits and behavioral reinforcement are actually separate from the hedonic circuits of the brain. So the reward circuits and the hedonic separates are technically separate. And this is kind of how we understand this, okay? So the hedonic circuits of the brain actually involve like different receptors and even use things like endocannabinoids and like different compounds. So a lot of like pleasure seeking and like pleasure and enjoyment isn't necessarily the dopamine circuit. They're actually discrete circuits. Dopamine is also involved in pleasure because the brain isn't, you know, it's not simple like that. Like there's just circuit one and circuit two. But we do know that the experience of pleasure and the experience of like motivation and reward and behavioral reinforcement are actually somewhat separate. And we know this actually by studying the brains of people with schizophrenia. So we know in the brains of people with schizophrenia is that like reinforcing behavior is very difficult for them, but their pleasure actually doesn't decrease. So for example, like if someone has bad schizophrenia, it's going to be really hard for them to like cook themselves a meal. But whether they cook it or not, they still enjoy or derive just as much pleasure from it. And so people got pretty confused and they were trying to figure out like if people with schizophrenia are still like getting pleasure out of it, why don't they do it? And this is when they stumbled upon this discovery that hedonics and like motivational drive are actually separate circuits. So I suspect what's going on is that you've got some kind of like problem here in terms of you've got some circuit in your brain that has developed a habit and has almost like an addictive kind of nature to it. And this also goes back to we had a lecture recently about ADHD and substance use. And remember that like when you start using a substance, there are like different phases of addiction. So in the first phase, it's like stimulates a particular part of brain and you have fun with it. And then as an addiction sets into your brain, it actually travels from more of your like prefrontal cortex and mesolimbic system into your striatum and it moves to a different part of your brain and then it becomes a habit. And once it becomes a habit, the reward, like the pleasure from it starts to decrease. So we kind of see this a lot in long term gamers where they're addicted to the game, but they don't even have fun playing it. Like even think about like MOBAs or like CSGO is a really good example of this where like it's really easy to tilt. Like if you actually, you know, take someone who plays eight hours of games a day, the amount of positive feeling that they generate from playing the game is actually outweighed by the negative feeling. Right. And so there's another kind of principle here where remember that the video game doesn't just give you pleasure. It also takes away pain from other parts of your life. So playing video game, this is something that's pretty consistent. Is it kind of numbs out your mind and like protects you against the negative stuff. So those are a couple of interesting neuroscientific principles about, you know, why you can get stuck playing a game and not even enjoy it and not be able to quit. The next thing is kind of naturally becomes, okay, so then what do you do about it? So the simplest way to stop playing games or even start, because this person's question wasn't, how do I stop playing games? It's how do I start enjoying them again? Is to actually do a dopamine detox. So we have a YouTube video about this, but I think that resetting all of those neurotransmitters and neurochemicals and like the ratio of like receptors to like what's being secreted. I've seen good progress happen in about two weeks for most people. So like don't play any video games and ideally steer clear of technology for about two weeks. No Reddit, no YouTube or anything like that. You know, grab a book. Like it helps if you kind of do this over like a vacation or something like that. We've got a whole video about it. But if you engage in a dopamine detox and reset your dopamine circuitry, like if you kind of like abstain from video games or other like short hanging technology for a period of two weeks, you will find that you're able to engage in more pleasurable activity and even games will start being fun again. So I noticed that back when I was like addicted to video games, they weren't even fun. And now when I play video games, there are lots of fun. Like I love playing video games. There's so much fun and I wish I could do it more. But this is the kind of thing where it's sort of like the more you do it, the less pleasurable it becomes. Right. So I'd say the fastest way is to dopamine detox. Now remember that dopamine detox is people don't understand this. They don't expect. They don't know what to expect. So the main thing about dopamine detox is to remember that like the main enemy in dopamine detox is going to be boredom. So you will be bored for two weeks and you're like what you have to survive is like a period of boredom, which sounds terrifying. That's why everyone takes their cell phones to use the bathroom. Right. Because like the idea of being bored, even for a brief amount of time and having nothing to do is like oddly terrifying to us. So if you guys want like an easy practice to prep you for a dopamine detox, it's very simple but it's also kind of hard. But you can do it is every time you go to the bathroom, don't take your cell phone. Don't take anything to do when you use your bathroom. Just go to the bathroom and just do the bathroom. And if you really think about it, it's like, oh my God, I need the cell phone so bad. But no, you don't. Like it's going to be like two minutes, five minutes. Like if you're unlucky, like 10 minutes, right, you'll survive. It'll be OK. Right. And so like you'll be fine. Like just go like every time when you do a number two, like don't take your cell phone. Just go without it. Easy. That's a good way to prep for a dopamine detox. There's a whole video about how to dopamine detox well. So we kind of go into a lot of details about it. So check that video out on our YouTube channel. OK.