 I don't want to be helped. Hello, I'm currently lying in bed at 5 a.m. after a bad night's sleep, so this will most likely be a mess. But I need to vent some deep frustration and resentment. I don't want to be helped. It's been a thought I've had during the last few months floating in my head. I'm currently seeing a therapist. Just had my sixth or seventh session yesterday, and I've told him about this feeling I have, but so far nothing has come out of it that I can notice. The biggest problems I have currently are all already covered by Dr. K, and so asking advice on those particular problems won't help. See, early 20s male who has never had a significant other or sexual experiences, lack of motivation to turn around in my life, lacking social and family life, etc. This has obviously created resentment, anger, and frustration at both myself and the world. As an example of those feelings are the following. Why was I never able to form friendships and romantic relationships when I was starting to be a teen like most teens? After all, they're just teens. How the F did they even know how to get into a relationship? Even the face of woeful despair and suffering, constantly feeling hurt, unsatisfied, I don't want to be helped, nor do I want to help myself. I'd rather take the path that will keep me in constant pain that'll lead me to live an unfulfilling life for the rest of my existence. The most advice I've gotten from my therapist is to try to see the optimism in my situation and to try to work on my self-esteem, whatever that means. I recognize that my life is in a pitiful state, yet I lack the will and motivation to even try to think of a better tomorrow. I wish I would have been born as a different person, a normal person with normal developmental experiences. Thank you for reading this. I wish you all the best. All right, so this is a really important post. Sometimes in life, we are not doing well. And then something funny happens. There's this idea that when we don't do well, we should dig deep and we should find inspiration. And the further down we are, we're going to have this epic comeback story of retribution and justice. And the further behind I am, I want to be that hero. I want to be the person who rises in the face of adversity and overcomes all of these things. But the truth is that for a lot of us, when our life is crap, we actually, bizarrely, and we'll understand this, we don't want to be helped. We think we deserve this. And so not only do we not rise to the challenge, but any time we try to find motivation, our mind tells us actually the exact opposite. It says, screw you. You don't actually deserve help. You don't need to get better. What you want is, I don't want to be helped, nor do I want help. I'd rather take the path that will keep me in constant pain that will lead me to live an unfulfilling life. Isn't that kind of weird? But that's true. That happens to us. Our mind tells us, screw you. You deserve this. And so how do we approach this? How do we get out of this trap? What's going on here? And I think the key word here is deserve. So who is responsible for this person's situation? So if you guys want to understand this, it comes down to responsibility. Who's responsible for this? What do you all think? Who created this situation? You did. You created this situation. Why was I never able to form relationships? Normal people form relationships, but you weren't able to. They don't even know how to form relationships, and they did it anyway, but I wasn't able to. Right? So then if you're responsible for being unmotivated, not having a significant other, life is going nowhere. How do you feel about yourself? How do you feel towards the person? Maybe this is a better question. How do you feel towards the person who did this to your life? How do you feel about that person? Because they did this to you, right? You're angry with them. What do they deserve? They made your life crap? What's justice in this scenario? Right? Screw that guy. He doesn't deserve to be happy. He doesn't deserve help. What he deserves is constant pain, because he screwed over my life, and the only justice is for him to suffer because he ruined my life so hard. Right? And so why don't you want help? Because you don't deserve it. Why don't you deserve help? Because you screwed up your life. You had all the opportunities. All the other incompetent teenagers managed to make friends, and you didn't manage to make friends. This is the way that you think about yourself. This is the way that you feel about yourself. Right? So of course you're going to reject help, because you blame yourself for creating this situation. And that's logically consistent, because who else could have done it? Right? You were in charge. You were the one that chose not to do this, not to do this. And remember, because now the samskar is active, now that the ahamkar is active, all you're going to see in yourself is like your self-blame. Right? You're going to look at all the things that you screwed up in life. And what you're never going to notice is that how we're—so if no one knows how to make friends, why were some teens able to make friends and some teens weren't? That's actually not your fault. There's something else going on here. It's very possible that the people who were able to make friends had home environments in which they were able to engage with other people. Maybe they had parents who regularly introduced them to strangers, so they learned how to make small talk. Maybe they had large family gatherings where they learned how to tolerate other kinds of things. Maybe they had large family gatherings where they learned how to be funny. Maybe their parents enrolled them in soccer so that they could play a game, and at the age of 15 they scored a goal, and so they felt really good about themselves the next day. The fact that they felt really good about themselves and felt confident made it even easier for them to engage with another person. Maybe that's how they were able to make friends. Maybe the reason they weren't able to make friends is because they were enrolled in soccer, and there were some other kids who were in soccer, and so I see those kids all the time. We hang out together automatically without any kind of pressure. But the problem is that when we start to hate ourselves and resent ourselves for creating this life for ourselves, I want you to externalize it. Recognize that who is to blame for this? This person is to blame. What do they deserve? They don't deserve anything good. I want to punish them for doing this to me. Now, the reason we get screwed, and it makes sense, I don't blame this person for feeling this way. In fact, I want you all to think about, imagine this was an actual external person. Imagine you're in your 20s and someone did something to you that made it so that you weren't motivated to do anything. You had never been in a relationship. You lack a family life. You lack a social life. Imagine they destroyed your life like this. How would you feel towards them? You would be very angry, and you want to punish them. Now, the reason that this is really tricky is because that person is you. This person ends up being you, and so you don't want to help that person. In fact, you want that person to not get any help. You want to sentence them to the just life of constant pain, and so this is the problem, because what you're doing is sentencing yourself. So how do you overcome this? The first thing is to recognize that you are justifiably angry towards yourself, but the key thing here is that you've got to learn to forgive. This is the key thing. It's hard. I'm not saying it's easy. Just forgive, but understand that this is what a lot of people taught, like Jesus taught this, Gandhi taught this, MLK taught this. Turn the other cheek. It's not an eye for an eye. So as long as you have an eye for an eye mentality, this is going to be the situation that you get into, and this is why people have made this discovery over the course of life. Over human existence, people sort of said, hey, forgiveness is actually the healthy way to live life. So learn to forgive. Why can't you forgive yourself? Start to practice compassion. When I say practice, I mean, this is just practice. I'm going to teach you how do you practice compassion. So think about 15-year-old you. You're angry at 15-year-old you for not learning how to socialize, right? Fine. Fair enough. Let's put ourselves in the shoes of 15-year-old you. What was it like being 15-year-old you? Man, it was terrifying. You didn't know what to do. And then as you start to empathize with 15-year-old you, what do you start to discover? You're like, well, it's not like that person had all the power in the world and threw it away, right? If we really start to empathize with our 15-year-old self, it was social anxiety and terror every single day, right? And so he had it hard. And then like, why am I like, it's not his fault that it was hard. He kind of did the best that he could. Like, could he have done better? Sure. Absolutely. But it's not like that. Does 15-year-old you deserve the sentence of a life of constant pain? No, that's ridiculous. Right? So this is the process of empathy and self-compassion. This is how you literally practice gratitude. It's not just forgive, bro. No, don't just forgive. Right? Like, that's actually stupid. Don't forgive. Just once again, use observation, like pay attention. What was life like for 15-year-old you? Can I cut 15-year-old me any kind of break? If I could talk to 15-year-old me today, what would I say? Would I say, screw you, you're going to fuck up the rest of my life? No, like, you're not going to say that, right? Like, there may be a part of you that wants to say that. But that's not what you would actually say to 15-year-old you because you remember what it was like to be a 15-year-old you. Right? It's okay to want to say that, but you're not going to do that. That's like, cruel and that's not who you are. So you're going to try to be a little bit empathic. And this is key because when you say, if you agreed with me when I say that, I'm not going to say that because that's not who I am. Boom. You've given yourself a little capacity for forgiveness. Right? If you agree with me that you would not have beaten up 15-year-old you, then you've learned a little bit of compassion. You've learned a little bit of empathy. Right? And you've taken the first step to a tiny amount of forgiveness. And once you take that tiny step, you can take it again and again and again and again. And once you have forgiven yourself, once you're able to want 15-year-old you to get some help and that it's acceptable to help them, you yourself will be able to accept other people's help. You yourself will be able to want to be helped. But it has to come with you, first of all, letting go of the sentence that you're putting on yourself. It's the judgment. It's this idea that I deserve this. Right? And if you deserve it, of course you're not going to find any motivation to change it. Right? Because it's what's just. It's like the motivation is not to change it. It's to actually make that prophecy come true. You want to carry out the sentence against yourself. So you're highly motivated to not change, which is exactly what we see. And then we get confused and we beat ourselves up because we're like, well, like, why don't why am I not motivated to change? I wish I was motivated to change. I wish I was motivated to change. And then you beat yourself up even more. And then you've tacked on 15 more years to your life sentence. And the cycle repeats and there's less forgiveness and less forgiveness and more judgment, more judgment. You screw it up. You screw it up. You screw it up. And then like you're just like there's no hope for you. Right? So take a step back from all of it. First of all, recognize and forgive yourself for being in this situation. Like you're not, you're not a complete idiot. Right? Like you're just human, just like the rest of us. And sometimes we have a constellation of things that happen to us that end. We end up getting stuck. Right? Like sometimes we just get stuck in the mud in life. And then like the more that you spin your wheels, the more you get stuck in the mud. And this is exactly what we're seeing here. That it is our reaction to things that propagate the problems. It is our strategy that we use that actually digs the hole we're in. Right? And so start by sort of taking a step back. Start by recognizing that there is a part of you that wishes to punish yourself for putting you in this situation. And that that part is completely valid. It's not wrong. Right? But it's incomplete. And there's more to the story than that. That thinking is not so black and white. That you don't deserve a life of constant pain. Did you screw up here or there? Absolutely. Could you have done better? Absolutely. But what you need from yourself is not to carry out a sentence of judgment. What you need is like a little bit of pep talk at halftime and get your ass back in the game and like do the best that you can. You can still win this. That's what you need from yourself. And so that starts by, first of all, empathizing with your 15-year-old you and remembering how hard it was to be them. And recognize as well, if you can, if you can get this far, that five years from now you can even empathize with mid-20s you. Right? Like do you deserve some compassion here? Like is your life genuinely hard? Sure, it's your fault, but now you're here and you have no motivation. And like, could you use a little bit of TLC? Absolutely. And if you can sort of admit that to yourself, then you're starting to walk the path of forgiveness. So it's like gratitude and compassion have to be practiced. Right? So I'll give you guys one other kind of like meditative practice. The next time someone pisses you off a tiny amount, try to practice some kind of gratitude or compassion towards them. And when you say practice, what do you mean, Dr. K? It can feel fake. That's okay. But I want you to do it anyway. So I want you all to go play a pub game of some competitive multiplayer, like MOBA is ideal. Right? You're going to have some guy who's going to feed and cause you to lose the game. And then like, I want you to literally say to them, better luck next time, dude. Like you'll do it. Like I recognize that maybe I was frustrated with you, but like I didn't play perfect either. Practice, practice some kind of gratitude or compassion towards someone else in your game. Right? Like do that. Practice it. And when you go, but you say, Oh, Dr. K, I don't feel it. That's okay. I want you to do it. Right? It's a practice. So do it. Practice some kind of compassion towards someone else. Like set aside your own feelings and recognize, okay, like how does it feel to throw the game that you were playing when you guys were winning? It feels really bad. And so what do you do with those emotions? You take it out on everyone else. You flame the rest of the universe and what people need in that moment. When you screw up your, you know, your alter like in the last team fight, like you're, you're so angry at yourself. You can't even handle it. You start beating up on other people, flaming all these other noobs. So practice a little bit of compassion, right? So remember what it's like to be. If your teammate just lost you the game, remember what it's like when you lose people game. It sucks. So try to practice a little bit of compassion and say, Hey, we'll get them next time, dude. You played really well. Like, you know, we all made mistakes. Good luck on your next game. Practice some compassion. And that's how we become compassionate through practice.