 When we have a date and we're virgins, we think that everything goes into this date. Oh my God, this is the chance. Like this is going to be what determines my future. This doesn't determine your future. This is practice for the future. Bruna Costa. Hi, Dr. K from Brazil. Please your golden advice for a 30 year old virgin on everything with a date scheduled with a foreigner for next month. Okay. So what should you do if you're a 30 year old virgin who is having their first date? Okay. So here's Dr. K's guide to if you're a virgin who's dating for the first time, what to do. You've got 30 days. The first thing is you got to feel comfortable in your own body. So this is what is to be understood when we are dating and we are inexperienced and we're virgins. Our main enemy is the virgin inside you. That is what you're trying to conquer. So how do you conquer the virgin inside you? The virgin inside you doesn't think that they look good. They don't feel good. They're stressed out. They lack confidence. So the first thing you've got to do is feel good in your own body. Now you may not be able to do that in 30 days, but let's get started. So in 30 days, you will be able to see at least some kind of change in your physical body. If you start exercising today, if you start stretching today, we want you to literally feel good in your own body. And then what we really want you to pay attention to is whatever progress you can make in 30 days. That's the goal. And in terms of the stakes, Oh, but what if I procrastinate? What if I do this? What if I do this? Remember the goal here is that you want to feel as good as you can in 30 days and the clock is ticking. So feeling good in your body can be exercising. It can also be things like mind, body practices, like yoga and Tai Chi. When your ass gets up out of the chair and you feel grown and clunky and sore and stiff, that doesn't feel good. So when your body is rusty, your mind will be rusty. Okay. So you got to exercise or do your mind, body practices, whatever, something to feel good. You can go for a walk. That's totally fine. You can walk for 30 days and that'll be good enough. Go for one hour walk for 30 days. A second part of that is oftentimes upgrading your physical appearance in whatever way you can. So get a nice haircut, get some advice from people, maybe get some new clothing, really pay attention to your wardrobe, consider shaving. Right? So like get some advice. This is like, I think, okay, there's this, you know, thing of looks maxing that everybody's doing nowadays. I think some of it's kind of body dysmorphia in disguise, but some of it's like pretty good. Hey y'all, if you're interested in applying some of the principles that we share to actually create change in your life, check out Dr. K's guide to mental health. It combines over two decades of my experience of both being a monk and a psychiatrist and distills all of the most important things I've learned into a choose your own adventure format. So check out the link in the bio and start your journey today. Second thing is that when we have a date and we're virgins, we think that everything goes into this date. Oh my God, this is the chance. Like this is going to be what determines my future. This doesn't determine your future. This is practice for the future. So every date that you go on is not about succeeding at the date or failing at the date. Every date you go on is to prepare you and level up for the next date. That's frame of mind change number two, because when you've been hungry for so long and someone finally gives you food, oh my God, I need to eat it. No, no, no, slow it down. Everything is about leveling up for the future. That's what this date is. And the third thing that I would strongly, strongly, strongly, strongly, strongly recommend is that you try to attach no outcomes to this state. Don't try to get laid. Don't even try to get a second date or anything like that. Try to have a good time. So this is the way that I want y'all to think about dating. So in my life, I can be with someone with a lot of people, with one person, with no people, you could pick whatever. And so you're going on a date to try to get to know someone, appreciate them for who they are and see if you have some kind of natural inclination towards them. See if y'all can vibe together or not. It's a vibe check. That's what a date is. So it's not about an outcome. It's about an experience. So go there with the attitude of not, I need to impress this person and this person needs to like me or anything like that. Don't let all that stuff go. You're going, you're going to show up as yourself. They are going to show up as themselves. You're going to be a polished version of you, right? So you want to make it enjoyable for them as well. And just try to enjoy the experience. I think that's what, what I sort of found is, is like, um, I was going to sound arrogant, but same, same sort of thing happened is that like when I, this was the big thing that changed a lot for me. So it started with me being a monk. So I was like, okay, I'm going to be a monk. So now that I'm hanging out with girls, like there's no semblance of any kind of romantic, anything, it's not an option. It's off the table. So I can relax and I can just have a good time, right? Let's just go hang out. Let's go to lunch somewhere. Hey, are you done? We're done with lunch. Do you want to like, go do something else? Like let's go for a hike. And then you end up hanging out with people and they wind up being a little bit more attracted to you. And then when I was in med school, contrary to popular belief, it's not like everyone salivates over doctors. It doesn't fix everything immediately. We're not even doctors yet. We're med students, same sort of attitude. So I was engaged in med school. So I was like, all right, there's no, like everyone else is like, oh my God, like who's who the hot singles, like, let's like, oh my God, you know, let's go. But I was like, yeah, I'm not going to play that game. So instead, when I hung out with people, it's just, let's have fun. And then sometimes people, there's attraction that sparks and that's OK. So this is what I would say is, is try to have a good time, right? Recognize that this is not the end of the world or the beginning of the world. It's one date and you should learn as much as you can from it. So are you saying that I should have an arranged marriage? No. See, let's talk about arranged marriage for a second. So let's understand something. So any system has advantages and disadvantages. And I didn't have an arranged marriage. My parents didn't have an arranged marriage. It was very scandalous back in the day. And so when people say like, oh my God, arranged marriages are so bad for all of these million reasons, and they can be really, really bad. So I had a family member who basically like was kind of forced into an arranged marriage. The family was like somewhat abusive, like they basically wanted an unpaid servant. Right. So and someone to like cook and clean and like there was no affection or equality or respect or anything like that. And so my family member left. Right. And it was very scandalous in the community because they're like, oh my God. Now she's like damaged goods. Oh my God. They would say all these kinds of things. And so we can look at the evils of arranged marriage in that way. And they can be very evil. Right. And also there's a reason why we used to do it. And the one thing that we forget about arranged marriage is that what we look for in a partner may not be what leads to a successful marriage. So here we are looking for what we want and how's that working out for us? Because we know what we want and we deserve what we want. Right. I deserve everything in life, especially when it comes to love. No one's raising their kids and being like, yeah, you know, I have daughters and I'm not, you know, I've never said this to them where I'm like, yeah, you know, I know that true love is really important, but chances are you're going to have to settle for half of what you're really looking for because that's life. No dad talks to their daughters that way. Like it's absurd. Right. We don't talk to our sons that way that you just got to settle, bro. You're not going to get what you want. So we create all these ideas that, oh, you should have absolutely what you want. And by the way, you're a good judge, right? Let's keep that in mind. So the one advantage of arranged marriage is that your parents chances are, have more experience in understanding what creates a safe, healthy, long-term relationship than you do. Maybe not safe. Who knows? And so they have an idea of your personality traits better than you do. They know what will compliment you well. So that's what they sort of make the decision based on, because when we're at the helm, it's not like we're always doing great. Right. So this is the problem with things like dating apps is dating apps don't actually allow you to select for the variables that correlate with success in long-term relationships. We just pick things that are all superficial like income and appearance and whatever vibe, whatever. You just answer these random things. And that's why, by the way, I don't know if you all have noticed, but dating apps have moved in the direction of being like less clear. So they're they're offering more ambiguous information. Like, you know, tell me something interesting about yourself, because they've realized that if we just have a bunch of checkboxes, it doesn't work. So they're trying to get closer to the factors that actually correlate with successful relationships. So, I mean, this is it's not that arranged marriages are good or we should go back to them. It's that they have some advantages, which is that if you grew up with parents who understand what makes a healthy relationship and if you assume that your parents know you pretty well, then they can be very advantageous at helping you find someone who would be a good partner. Right. They can have that information more than you can. And in the current version of arranged marriage, it's usually not like you meet your bride on the day or husband on the day of the marriage. Those happen in India and some places still. But nowadays, the way that arranged marriage works for most like NRIs or other people is that you basically like in the Western system, right, in America, you date someone for a while and then you have to meet the parents face and that can go well or that can go poorly. Right now in the Indian system, it's just reversed. So the parents pre-approve. It's you've been pre-approved for your loan. You've already been approved for this credit card. The parents do the pre-approval process. Then you go on a series of dates with like five or six people, 10 people, however, however many. And then you keep on dating people until you like one. So it's just the steps are reversed. Let's make a bio data. I'm already married, son. Yeah. So some of the issue is forcing arranged marriages to everyone. Yeah. So that absolutely happens. And I do not agree with forced arranged marriage. Like that's just, you know, I think that that too comes from a I just don't think that's really viable anymore. But, you know, there was a time in human history where community kind of mattered way more than the individual. Like you as an individual had a responsibility. Otherwise, just we wouldn't survive. Like, right. So this was before we had a lot of technology and things like that. So there were like really simple things like in your village of 300. So I was talking to my grandma about this. And so she was kind of telling me that, you know, like the one thing about arranged marriage is that so what would happen is you'd fall in love with like people in your village. Right. But they wouldn't let you marry anyone from your village. You had to go one or two villages over to find a partner. And why is that? It's because chances are you're like somewhat related to the people in your village. Right. Because you all have been living there for like generations and generations and generations. And there are some like. So like they had this rule where like whoever you got married to had to be from one or two villages over. That was really the only rule. They just won't let you. And who do you fall in love with? You never meet these people because you don't. You know, the village over is like 20 miles away, which is like a day's travel or something like that. So reasons why people had these kinds of rules and it was just a whole different world. Someone's asking Dr. K. How do I get a girlfriend and stop being so shy around girls? OK, let's talk about this for a second. So a couple of things to understand. The first is that shyness as a personality characteristic does not correlate with introversion or extroversion. This is very interesting. So shyness also doesn't necessarily correlate with things like anxiety. So a lot of people think that if I'm shy, I'm an introvert. That's actually not true. So you can be a shy extrovert, which can be very painful if you're a shy extrovert because you're shy, but you really love hanging out with people. So if we understand what shyness is. Right. So there's like a couple of different parallel things that we tend to get mixed up. And if you're struggling with shyness, the key thing is to try to unpack what we mean by the word shy, because some of these things we don't want to change. It's part of who you are and we love you for it. But part of that stuff can negatively impact things that you want to do. So case in point, I am extremely shy. I'm also an extreme extrovert. So I mean, introvert. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but like Dr. K, you're streaming on the Internet. No, I'm sitting in a room by myself on a weekday and I don't have to. I don't even see you all. You all are just fictitious in my mind and nothing helps a shy person so much as imaginary people on the Internet. Right. It's like imaginary friends is totally fine. So first thing is that let's understand what shyness is. And many people find shyness, especially girls, will find shyness to be cute. So let's understand what to do about that. So the big problem with shyness, first of all, it's not introverted or extroverted. So you can be either or. OK. Second thing is that oftentimes the problem with shyness is not the shyness. It's the lack of confidence. So someone who is not confident and shy will stay in the corner. Whereas someone who is confident and shy, like I don't care to speak to or get to know people. I just it's not for me. And you guys may say, but that's weird. Aren't you a psychiatrist? And like, don't you get to know? I love to get to know people in that way. But I detest small talk like at a party. Like, I don't want to hang out with any of these people. But if you're confident, you can. Right. So then what ends up happening is I'd say that you need to work on your confidence and don't try to fix the shyness is that sort of fixing a part of it's a personality characteristic. You don't need to fix that. You need to fix the confidence. So it's not that you should be less shy. It is that you should have the control over yourself to where if you are put in a situation that requires interaction with other human beings, you can do so with full skill and effort. You should not be controlled by your shyness. And that usually involves confidence. So in my case, what I really sort of think about, so here are a couple of tricks to be confident. OK, I mean, I guess it's a trick, but it's not really a trick. The first is spend a little bit of time thinking, how much does this person matter? And chances are you will discover, I know this sounds kind of weird, that this person doesn't matter very much. Right. So I'm not saying that human beings don't matter. I'm not trying to be an asshole. But oftentimes when we are lack confidence, we think to ourselves that, oh, my God, if I screw up this conversation with this person, it's going to be so bad. Why? You're not going to talk to this person again. It's like not that big of a deal. There's like eight billion human beings on the planet. You don't need this one person to like you in this moment. And then people get so caught up about this with like job interviews and dating and whatever. Right. There's lots of fish in the sea. There are lots of human beings out there. You don't have to impress this person. That's number one. Right. And then you just think to, and if you kind of screw it up, you screw it up. I've screwed up many social interactions in my life. It's like usually people like forget about that kind of stuff. Second thing is that to remember that oftentimes you are a much harsher critic of your behavior than other people are. So they just see your outsides, whereas you are being flogged by your outsides and your insides. Right. So if you're just like quiet and not saying anything, you can be in tons of internal emotional turmoil. Like, oh, my God, like I had something to say. Should I jump in? Is it my turn to speak? Because they seem to be talking and I have something good to contribute. But then like 60 or 90 seconds go by and they've started to move on to something else. And now you're like you're like bummed because, damn it, I had a good thing to say. And I know that I need a good thing to say to participate in the conversation. But now they've moved past it. And now should I go back to it? That makes things awkward. So then you just sit there and then you think about that for another 30 seconds. And then you're like, well, now I haven't said anything for a while and I've been awkwardly silent. And so there you are torturing yourself and the other two people are having a flowing conversation. They're not really paying attention to you. So another thing is that oftentimes when we are when it comes to confidence, our confidence or lack thereof is born of a comparison. But the problem is that the comparisons we make are Frankenstonian monsters. So we don't just compare ourselves to one person with like 10 qualities down the road down the line. What we do is we compare. We take our weakest quality and we take the strongest person who has that quality and we can make this comparison. Then we compare to this person's head and this person's feet and this person's career and this person's charisma and this person's money and this person's relationship. And so we look at all these different people. We don't do one on one comparisons. We don't look at the person who makes more money than us and we tell ourselves, yeah, but this person is like a complete train wreck when it comes to relationships and they've been divorced twice. We don't think that way. So when it comes to a lack of confidence, be very careful about comparison and ideally don't compare at all. You are you and let other people accept you or reject you based on that. And the last thing is if you are deficient in some way, improve upon it. Right. But you don't need other people's comparisons to show you that you can be better. You can always be better. And that's what you should lean into. And generally speaking, once you develop confidence and you are shy, then that tends to solve the problem because then you can go and you're still shy, but you can interact with people when you need to. Hey, Dr. K, how do I get my kid to put down the game without it being a fight every single time? The problem with gaming is that it tricks our brain into being a substitute for life. Once we start to get our psychological needs met through the game, that's when we become addicted. How to raise a healthy gamer combines the latest in neuroscience research along with a decade of clinical practice. Check it out anywhere books are sold.