And can he be **fearless** of death, or will he choose death in battle rather than defeat and slavery, who believes the world below to be real and terrible? Impossible.

And we must beg Homer and the other poets not to be angry if we strike out these and similar passages, not because they are unpoetical, or unattractive to the popular ear, but because the greater the poetical charm of them, the less are they meet for the ears of boys and men who are meant to be free, and who should fear slavery more than death.

Re: Another and a nobler strain must be composed and sung by us.



The good man will not consider death terrible to any other good man who is his comrade ... And therefore he will not sorrow for his departed friend as though he had suffered anything terrible?

Again, truth should be highly valued; if, as we were saying, a lie is useless to the gods, and useful only as a medicine to men, then the use of such medicines should be restricted to physicians; private individuals have no business with them.
	Note the irony

...
the words would have been, not imitation, but simple narration.

.... (big jumo to resume):

Immitation
And this is equally true of imitation; no one man can imitate many things as well as he would imitate a single one?

... "maintenance of freedom" ... goes back to the irony

You need to do this yourself
imitations (in your head) > habits

"a just and good man in the course of a narration comes on some saying or action of another good man,-- I should imagine that he will like to personate him, and will not be ashamed of this sort of imitation" .... he can't do that if he's sick or lovestruck or drunk ... "But when he comes to a character which is unworthy of him, he will not make a study of that; he will disdain such a person, ...""
// on dealing with trolls?:
"and will assume his likeness, if at all, for a moment only when he is performing some good action"

mitative and narrative

"musical training is a more potent instrument than any other, because rhythm and harmony find their way into the inward places of the soul, on which they mightily fasten, imparting grace, and making the soul of him who is rightly educated graceful, or of him who is ill-educated ungraceful"

Manuel - 
Plato - if you act things out, you'll start becoming that. If we immitate things that are real, or can't be real, we get into problems. The gods don't lie ... not in accordance with reality.
	"We would not have our guardians grow up amid images of moral deformity"
What it means to be contributing. Sometimes you can't classify that contribution.


wantonness and intemperance
beauty
virtue / vice

Difference between ?? & narrative is rationality. If you're rationalizing, then the thing you're rationalizing about is narrative.
Peterson: Narrative first (wrapped up in consciousness, first) ... if doing something w/ mimicry. (low energy state, preferred).

Making the first ?? from not you ... making it a lie > now you're imposing a truth on what is not true.


The nature of Education
The Education of the Physician
The Education of the Judge - 
The Education of the Lawyer - 

Damon - refutation of rationality as a primary moving force.

Spirit of Licence (spirit of licentousness)
Action > Lack of constraint

amusements should be constrained so that it doesn't become lawless
"Then, as I was saying, our youth should be trained from the first in a stricter system, for if amusements become lawless, and the youths themselves become lawless, they can never grow up into well-conducted and virtuous citizens."


Daemon - 
Algorithms to allocate & segment memory.
Pirate ISOs on Limewire - people would pirate ISOs ("image of a compact disk") - daemon tools lite.
Daemon in software.


HS - the Abstraction of Jesus' spirit or something.

Eros in the symposium - the messenger from the God (like the intermediary).
Damon - enhancing ?? towards ideal
You can be posessed by one as well.

- Book 4 & 5

Are we in agreement that music does indeed affect the soul?

Manuel - Good question, I think it depends.

Prescribing what music the guardians should listen to...
Music can be used like a tool for performance - 
Can be listened to in times of music to bring to tears.


Who are you. Where are you located? Where are you going? Because, why are you listening to the music?
I use music to calm my mind for programming.
I use music to marshal resources in the gym.

Melancholly - hard rock that's kind of emo.
Some people are very blaze. They don't have the melancholly spirit.


Habbit of body
In the gym - eye contact & a nod with which we acknowledge eachother. Like we're peers of some sort.
Michael - 
Melancholly - 


It's clearly still in music & video games. Like, it isn't arbitrary that the orchestra still survives.

Gods
Poetry
Music - related to emmanation
Professions
Sport

Emmanation is a prerequisite. Transcend into something.
Discernment for the emmanation. You can do that through music.
Language of creation - musical instruments are bringers of chaos, change, or whatever. Letting go of the structore so it can reshape itself into something higher.


Identity - embodying the spirit of.
Being All In.
Spirit of Ares very prevalent in the world of business.
Simple & small minded people squabbling over 

Relationship to work

Keep working; that's what fixes him.

Manager of manager has 2nd order relationship to reality. I'm getting 2nd order signals.
Religion - the 2nd order thing ... 
When they land somewhere ... they need somewhere to belong.

Telos - (anti telos).
Individualism 

A Telos of Opposition
or a Diffusion - scattering

What is your judgment around?

Early Youtube - Tai Lopez commercials - "knowledge"
May God have mercy upon the poor soul who is poor in knowledge.
Beauty - subordinated

(Good, True, Beautiful)

Forms is the realm of no hierarchy (top of all possible hierarchy).

Beauty happens without appearance. We don't operate without appearance. Forms are minea (or remembering).

Perception, discernment, judgment of the ideal ... to move the world. Aristotle comes and claims that as Final Cause.
Final Cause - 1st order of intention; last on the order of execution.

People are trying to make something out of a descriptive frame ... make a model ... what do they end up with? An emmanation that's causal in the framework;
Need to step outside of it - what's bringing in the structure?
You're always going to end up @ ... ???

Beauty separated from Telos (or Truth) isn't Beauty.


Adam got home from Mass & brought in a spirit of Holy Spirit of Santification.


Spirits & egregores.
Express some gratitude for some loaning of faith towards me this week.
Sally Joe pointed that out to me this morning.
Michael
- Alot of anechdotes of this to mention.
