 So now I'd love to teach you all a practice called Nadi Shuddhi, which is actually the first practice in a series of three practices that all sort of go together. So our first practice is Nadi Shuddhi. Nadi is the Sanskrit word for a channel through which energy flows through your body, and Shuddhi means cleansing. So this is a practice that's sort of designed to clean out your body and clean out your energy channels, as well as clean out your mind. After we do Nadi Shuddhi for a couple of weeks, we'll move on to an advanced practice called Anulam Vilam, and then we'll end up with an even more advanced practice after a couple of weeks called Brana Shuddhi. So Nadi Shuddhi is essentially alternate nostril breathing. So what we're going to do is actually block one side of our nostril, breathe in through the other, and then block the other side and breathe out. And then we'll breathe in through that same nostril, switch, and then breathe out again. So if we look at this pattern of alternate nostril breathing, what does this do for us? The first thing to understand is that the nerves from your left nostril actually go and inner innervate your parasympathetic nervous system. So it sort of activates the system of our body that's designed to rest and digest. In the East, we sort of think about this concept of yin and yang, or in Sanskrit surya, which means sun, and jhandro, which means moon. And the left nostril sort of activates your yin, activates your moon, and will sort of calm you down a little bit. And the right nostril actually activates your sympathetic nervous system, which sort of primes you for action, does things like prep you for fight or flight. And so when our surya, our yang, or our right nostril is active, we tend to be a little bit more active overall. And so the goal of this practice is sort of to balance your yin and your yang, your surya and your jhandro, and your sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. When I use this practice clinically for people who are a little bit depressed, it sort of energizes them. And for people who are way too anxious and restless, it kind of calms them down. So this is the practice of nadi shuddhi. So let's begin. So we're going to start with something called nasika mudra, which is when I take my hand and I'm actually going to separate out the first two fingers from the last two fingers. And then what we're going to do is place these two fingers right above our eyebrow, and then that'll kind of position our thumb to block this nostril, and then our other two fingers to block the other nostril. So I'll take my right hand, adopt the mudra, I'll block the right nostril, and I'll breathe in through the left. And then what I'll do is switch, block the left nostril and open up the right and breathe out. And then I breathe in through the same nostril, switch, and then breathe out. And so we'll practice again. Breathe in through the left. Switch and breathe out. In through the same nostril. Switch and out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. Now let's pause for a moment and sort of make sure we get this right. So the goal of nadi shuddhi is to breathe in through one nostril, and while you have a full breath of air, actually switch the nostrils and then breathe out. And then you breathe in through the same nostril, switch, and breathe out. So some people may want to do this, where they block one nostril, I breathe in and out, and then switch, and then in and out. But we actually really want to pay attention that we want to block one nostril, breathe in, switch, and breathe out. So remember to always switch on a full breath of air. Let's try to practice for about 60 seconds, and I'll kind of walk you through it, and then you can continue to practice on your own. So adopt nasi kumudra, sit up straight, close your eyes, and we'll begin. So in. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. In. Switch out. And go ahead and finish that breath, and let your hands relax. And notice the slight stillness of your mind. And now take a deep breath in, and as you exhale, open your eyes. So this is the really great thing about nadi shuddhi. It just takes, we were practicing for maybe one minute, and just in one minute, see how much calmer your mind is. And so the beautiful thing about nadi shuddhi is it's a very purifying practice, sort of everything out, sort of slows you down, balances everything out. Now a couple of caveats we have to go over. The first is that some of you may have noticed that one of your nostrils is more clogged than the other, and that's actually completely normal. There's a very actually in-depth science of something called svara yoga, which is the sort of meditation techniques around the breath. And your nostrils may actually alternate in which one is clogged at any given time. That's actually completely normal. The second thing is that generally speaking, we want to practice for about three to five minutes at a time. And then you can eventually work your way up to 10 minutes, 15 minutes, or even 20 minutes. The goal in nadi shuddhi is to practice for some amount of time. And you all may have noticed that it's actually a little bit tricky to keep track of what's going on. And that's actually a good thing, because as long as you're focusing over here, you're not going to be thinking about other things. After you're done with nadi shuddhi, then you can sort of relax a little bit. And I encourage you all to just sit in the space of your mind. Notice the slowness of your breath. Just appreciate how calm you feel. And just sort of sit with yourself for a few seconds. And that concludes our teaching of the practice nadi shuddhi.