 So if you've been practicing Nadi Shuddhi for two to four weeks, now you should be ready for Anulom Vilom. And Anulom Vilom technically means alternate nostril breathing. But the key thing about Anulom Vilom is unlike Nadi Shuddhi, where we sort of use our fingers to block off one nostril, in Anulom Vilom we're going to pay attention to the left nostril as we breathe in and pay attention to the right nostril as we breathe out, and then we'll switch. So in Nadi Shuddhi, we're actually compressing one nostril so all we can feel is one nostril at a time. But now that we've sensitized ourselves, we know sort of what the feeling of the breath through the nostril is. Now that we've trained ourselves to understand that sensation, we actually don't need to use our fingers at all. And we can actually use our attention to sort of connect to that subtle awareness of each nostril kind of going in and out. So this is an important practice because it sort of involves an increase in our subtle awareness. And this is an important theme throughout meditation practices, that we start out not being able to detect very much. But as we practice meditation, we're going to sort of improve the zoom of our telescope or microscope, and we'll be able to look at something far more precisely. As we begin to detect more and more subtleties within our mind, within our self, within our awareness, this is what sort of translates into self understanding. So people who practice subtle meditation techniques will be able to detect little things within their own psychology, small insecurities that they never knew they had, as well as things like the action of the ego and what sort of drives my behavior. So Andulom Vilom is a very good practice at sort of prepping that. In Andulom Vilom, what you do is actually concentrate on the sensation of inhalation through the left. And then concentrate on the sensation of exhalation through the right. And now put your attention on the right nostril and breathe in. And put your attention on the left nostril and breathe out. And so as we move into more advanced practices of yoga, we're going to start using a subtle awareness. We're going to train ourselves to notice things that otherwise we wouldn't be able to notice. And as we sort of increase our subtle awareness of the body, of the mind, we'll begin to detect tiny little things within ourselves. We'll begin to detect things like the subtle action of our ego or how maybe an insecurity is leading to a particular behavior. And all of that requires you to strengthen the power of your telescope, this telescope of your attention. So in Andulom Vilom, we're going to sort of practice focusing our attention as we breathe in and out and in and out and in and out. And that will prepare us for our third practice. So now we're going to give this a shot. So we're going to practice for about 60 seconds where I encourage you to close your eyes and notice the breath in through the left and then out through the right and then in through the right and out through the left and sort of keep going. And now end the practice. Let your eyes remain closed and sort of just like we did after Nadi, should these sit in the space of your mind. And now let yourself sort of return to the world. Notice the sensations of your body. Notice maybe there are noises going on. Notice the scent of the room that you're in. Let your mind start to return to this place. And now we're going to take a deep breath in. And as we exhale, we're going to slowly open our eyes. So that's the second stage of this practice. Andulom Vilom. We want to start with Nadi Shuddhi, purifying these channels. And then we're going to direct our attention to the passage of air through each one. And this is an important practice for strengthening our ability to detect things within ourselves. And that segues to the third part of the practice, or Prana Shuddhi. So now that you understand Nadi Shuddhi and Andulom Vilom, these two practices should be linked. And our goal should be to practice for about 20 minutes a day. So you may do Nadi Shuddhi for anywhere between 5 and 10 minutes, and then try to do Andulom Vilom for anywhere between 5 and 10 minutes. If you don't quite hit 20, that's okay. It's not really about the number. For some people, it's actually really useful to do a certain number of rounds. But I tend to find that about 10 minutes of Nadi Shuddhi, followed by 10 minutes of Andulom Vilom, is really what you need to do for at least about two weeks, if not a month, before you're ready for the third stage of practice, or Prana Shuddhi.