 So now that you've been practicing Nadi Shuddhi and Andulam Vilom, hopefully each for at least two weeks, you're ready for the third stage of practice, or Prana Shuddhi. Prana Shuddhi is sort of a very important practice for strengthening our Agna Chakra, as well as sort of cleansing out our prana, or our vital life energies. This practice sort of requires you to be well grounded in Andulam Vilom, because we're going to be really following the passage of our breath in a very particular way. So after you've practiced Andulam Vilom for about two weeks to one month, in addition to Nadi Shuddhi, then you'll be ready for Prana Shuddhi. So in Prana Shuddhi, it's actually quite simple. We're going to follow our breath almost like an inverted V, as it goes up both of our nostrils and into this sort of eyebrow center, right maybe a couple centimeters above where our eyebrows meet. So if you actually pay attention to the temperature of your breath, the feel of your breath, you'll notice that the breath actually converges right above your eyebrows. And so if you've practiced Andulam Vilom well, and Nadi Shuddhi well, this should be something you're able to detect. If you're not really able to detect it, maybe this technique isn't really for you, or continue practicing Nadi Shuddhi in Andulam Vilom. So essentially what we're going to do is breathe in into the eyebrow center, and then breathe out from the eyebrow center. And we'll just practice that. So now let's begin. So close your eyes, sit up straight, and now as you breathe in, imagine that inverted V going up between your eyebrows. And then breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows out into the world. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. Feel those cool channels of air as they rise and sort of end up right here, right between your eyebrows. And out. And now practice Prana Shuddhi for about one minute. And then breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. And breathe in and go back up to the eyebrow center. And breathe out and let it out from your eyebrows. ... Now go ahead and finish the round that you're on. Once again, sit in the space of your calm mind. You may notice that the world starts to return. ... Now let yourself come back. ... Feel the sensations of your body. Hear the sounds around you. Notice smells. ... And now as you breathe in. ... And exhale, slowly open your eyes. So this is the third stage, or prana shuddhi. These practices are meant to be done in sequence. So do nadi shuddhi for a few weeks or a month, practicing anywhere from five to twenty minutes a day. And then once you get good at that, move on to anulam vilam. And then you want to practice that as well, maybe ten minutes of nadi shuddhi, and then ten minutes of anulam vilam. And after you do that for a few weeks, then we want to add prana shuddhi to it. And this will sort of really sort of start to stimulate our agna chakra, our third eye, as well as really clean out our body. So our total practice may be somewhere around twenty to thirty minutes. And you can sort of divide it up how you want to. If you like nadi shuddhi a little bit more, that's great. If you really like prana shuddhi the most, you can sort of do a little bit of that. And so this is our first practice that we're going to teach. It's nadi shuddhi, anulam vilam, and then finally prana shuddhi.