 So now I'm going to teach you a practice called Kapal Bhati. Kapal is the Sanskrit word for skull, and bhati means illumination. So the Sanskrit translation of this practice is actually breath of fire or breath of illumination. So Kapal Bhati is a really, really useful practice for people with anxiety. And the reason for that is that it's sort of a period of hyperventilation, and then as we sort of finish the practice, we're going to be in a very calm state of breathing. And so if you think about anxiety for a second, part of the problem is that your mind is going really, really fast. And oftentimes we try to force ourselves to calm down. But that's not usually how the mind works. When you try to force your mind to do something, it usually doesn't listen. So instead what we're going to do is we're actually going to match the pace of the mind. Since we're very, very excited, we're going to breathe very, very fast, which is normally the rate of anxious breathing anyway. And then we're going to actually tire it out by breathing way too fast. And then we'll sort of calm it down and naturally breathe very slowly. The other interesting thing about Kapal Bhati has to do with respiratory physiology. So the cool thing is that the yogis essentially figured out how to take advantage of some of our respiratory circuitry to induce calm breathing. So our respiratory drive is actually driven not by our oxygen level, like most people may think, but actually by our CO2 level. So when our CO2 gets very, very high, we sort of induce hyperventilation. And when our CO2 gets very, very low, we actually slow down breathing. So the main control of our breathing isn't actually oxygen. It's about blowing off the CO2 waste products that are in our body. So the cool thing is that when we hyperventilate, we actually rapidly decrease our CO2. And then there's a very powerful driver within our body to actually naturally slow down your breath. And the cool thing is that when we naturally slow down our breath, our mind is going to slow down with it. So in Kapal Bhati, we're sort of exercising our respiratory physiology to actually physiologically slow down our mind. So before we start with Kapal Bhati itself, we have to learn something called abdominal breathing. So I'll take my hand and I'll go ahead and put it on my abdomen. And the first thing to understand is that when we usually breathe, we breathe from our chest. So instead, what we're going to do is learn how to belly breathe. So in this situation, when I breathe in, I'm going to inhale and I'm going to push my stomach out. And when I push my stomach out, it actually pulls my diaphragm down and sucks air into my lungs. And when I breathe out, I'm going to compress my stomach and almost make my belly button try to touch my spine. And when I do that, all of the air will come out. So let's practice belly breathing for a second. So breathe in and push your stomach out. And then breathe out and contract the abdomen. Breathe in. And out and pull in that abdomen. Now continue on your own. And the reason that we use our hand is because it's really easy to feel our hand move out and really easy to feel our hand move in. So during inhalation, we're going to push the abdomen out. And during exhalation, we're going to pull the abdomen back in. Suck down that diaphragm. And as you contract the abdomen, the diaphragm will move up and the air will leave. So let's practice five good belly breaths. In and out. In and out. In and out. In and out. And last one. In and out. Now you can go ahead and open your eyes and see how good you feel already. How calm, how relaxed. And that was just with five belly breaths. We haven't even started with the meditation technique yet. So now we'll move on to kapalbhati. So in kapalbhati, what we're going to do is forcible abdominal exhalation at a very rapid pace, followed by passive inhalation. And what I mean by that is I'm going to breathe out. And I'm going to breathe out hard again. And what I want you guys to do is not focus on taking a breath in afterward, but really focus on pushing out the air. So we're going to go boom, boom, boom, boom. Exhalation followed by exhalation, followed by exhalation, followed by exhalation. And if you pay attention, there will be a very passive inhalation after the exhalation. It's almost as if as your body preps to blow out again, it's going to suck in a tiny bit of air. And that's actually completely fine. So in kapalbhati, we don't want to practice for a certain number of time. We actually want to practice for a certain number of breaths. So what we'll start with is nine rounds of kapalbhati. And so if you did it, what you'll notice is that after those nine forceful breaths, there's actually a very, very calm and natural slow inhalation. And so that's going to be what we do in kapalbhati. What we're really shooting for is that calm period afterward. So now what we're going to do is let's go up to 12 breaths and really pay attention to how we exhale and then how we feel afterward. So begin. And now go ahead and come back. And so essentially what we want to do with kapalbhati, we'll do it one more time just so you get a chance to practice. And we're going to go up to 15 rounds. What you're going to do is you essentially want to work your way all the way up to 30 or 33 rounds of kapalbhati for one run. And then there's going to be a deep inhalation where you kind of feel very calm and feel good. And then we'll do another 33 rounds followed by deep inhalation. And then finally another 33 rounds followed by deep inhalation. And that'll be the full practice. But for now, we're going to teach the technique with 15 breaths. So let's do that together. So you can place your hand on your abdomen if you want to. Otherwise, you can just relax, sit up straight, close your eyes, take a deep breath and begin. And when you're ready, go ahead and come on back. And once again, you may have noticed that rapid exhalation where you're really focusing on pushing out the air and then the calm inhalation afterwards. And like I mentioned before, ideally what you want to do is work your way up to 33 exhalations followed by calm inhalation. And then the second round of 33 exhalations, calm inhalations, and then 33 exhalations and then calm inhalations. So a lot of times people struggle to keep count when they're doing meditation. And it's actually OK to let go of the count completely and just focus on the practice. But for a lot of people, they sort of need a guidebook. They need a rule book. They need a place to start. And it's fine to sort of keep count with each sharp breath. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and then sort of calm down afterward or to let yourself go within the practice and let sort of your own respiratory centers guide you when you're ready for that long inhalation afterward. And I encourage you, especially after that last one, to just sit silently and do whatever kind of other meditative practice you want to. You can do any of the other practices in the module. But the goal of Kapal Bhati, remember, is to kind of calm your mind. It works really well for anxiety and really puts your mind in a good state for further or deeper practices of meditation. Thank you.