 So now we're going to move on to Bhaastrika, which is also known as Bellow's Breath. Now this is a practice that's a little bit more advanced, and I highly recommend that people train with Kapalbhati for at least two weeks before trying Bhaastrika. You can think about Bellow's Breath, or Bhaastrika Pranayama, as sort of an extension of Kapalbhati. So in Kapalbhati, we sort of train with abdominal breathing, and we train with forceful exhalation, but in Bhaastrika Pranayama, we're actually going to do a forceful inhalation, followed by a forceful exhalation. Bhaastrika Pranayama, or Bellow's Breath, is also a very good Manipura Chakra practice. So for those of you who are interested in working on digesting things, like emotional processing, or even improving your ability to absorb information, Bhaastrika Pranayama stimulates our Agni, which is the force which takes that which is not us and turns it into us. So it helps us do things like turn food into blood and muscle and skin, and it also does things like digest our emotions, our pent-up regrets, all of our sort of negative emotions that linger in the back of our mind. And so that's one of the Manipura Chakra practices. So let's move on to the actual practice of Bhaastrika Pranayama. So in Bhaastrika, it's kind of like Kapalbhati, where we're going to do a forceful exhalation, but now instead of a passive inhalation, we're going to do a forceful inhalation. And each one sort of lasts a certain number of seconds. So we'll start with sort of a one-to-one ratio. So what I'll do is breathe in sharply for one second and then breathe out sharply for one second. And I'll repeat that a few times. So here we go. And so now I want you all to practice with me. So we're going to do roughly nine rounds of sharp inhalation followed by sharp exhalation. It's not uncommon for people to feel a little bit lightheaded or a little bit dizzy during Bhaastrika Pranayama. So don't push yourself. We're going to shoot for nine, but if you feel a little bit uncomfortable, by all means stop. So we'll practice for nine breaths and then we'll sit silently afterward. So sit up straight, mentally prepare yourself, and then let's begin. So we'll sit in this space for a second. Let your heart calm. Let your mind sort of calm down a little bit. You may feel a little bit lightheaded. So we'll wait about a few more seconds. Prep ourselves. And now we'll begin for another nine breaths. So begin. Now sit in this space in your mind. And now we'll go in for a third round, nine breaths. This will be our last round for now. So begin. And now feel how invigorated you feel, maybe a little bit restless, energized. Let your eyes open. And that's Bhaastrika Pranayama. So remember that Kapalbhati is all about calming the mind, but Bhaastrika can be a little bit invigorating, right? So as we breathe kind of rapidly, you may notice yourself being sort of calm and energetic at the same time. That bellows breath really sort of stokes the fire of our Agni, of our Manipura Chakra, helps us metabolize, digest, and sort of invigorate.