 Let's learn a little bit about chanting in mantra today. So I'm going to teach you guys the most basic mantra, om, which is sort of viewed as the primordial sound of the universe. Remember if we go back to the metaphysics of the sort of meditative worldview, Brahman exists as kind of this cosmic consciousness or this gigantic probability wave. And when Brahman oscillates at particular frequencies, particular manifestations are made in the world, like matter, energy, or different kinds of things like gravitational forces. And so om is believed to be the most fundamental oscillation at which the universe vibrates. So on a more practical level, om is composed of actually three syllables, ah, ooh, and mm. And so technically when we chant om, we don't actually chant o-m or om. What we're actually going to chant is ah, ooh, mm. And what we're going to do is start with our mouth fully wide open, ah, ooh, mm. And we end with a mouth that's fully closed. So over the course of om chanting, we kind of want to be a little bit careful about sort of separating out the three sounds at the beginning. And then as you get better at it, you can sort of combine them all together. So the other thing to keep in mind about any kind of chanting is that chanting is actually not about sound. It's about vibration. So as we practice, what I want you all to really focus on is not what you hear, but what you feel. Focus on the individual feelings that each vibration will create. So I'll go ahead and demonstrate three rounds of om chanting, and then we'll do five more together. So I'm going to start by sitting up straight and taking a deep breath. And then over the course of one breath, I'm going to chant om. Om. And now I'll do two more rounds. Om. So that's how you chant om. Remember once again that the goal is vibration, not sound. So a couple of tips before we start. Remember that a big deep breath is going to go a really long way. So I won't sort of chant a full breath of om. So you'll sort of take a slightly smaller breath. So it's a little bit easier to start off with. But as you practice, you're going to want to take a nice deep full breath. The second thing is that remember we're shooting for vibration. So you may notice that a certain amount of power or energy is really useful for maximizing that vibration, as well as the frequency at which you chant. So oftentimes if you listen to monks chanting om, they'll sort of use a very low pitch. So depending on the pitch that you use, you may notice different kinds of vibrations. So try to pick sort of a comfortable breath, a comfortable pitch for you. So let's try to do five rounds together. And like most of our meditative practices, what we really want to do is after the five rounds are complete, that's actually where we're going to enter the most important part of om. Because technically om is not just three syllables. It's not ah, ooh, and mm. Technically if we really look at the practice of om, it's ah, ooh, mm, and then silence, which is actually the fourth part of om. So after we practice, we're going to sort of sit in that silence for maybe another minute or so. So sit up straight. And let's begin. Deep breath in. Again. Big deep breath. Last one. Make it count. And now we're going to go ahead and start the process of coming back. Start to notice your body again. Notice the sort of residual feelings post-vibration. You can let your eyes remain closed. Now what we're going to do is take a deep breath in and breathe out. And we're going to breathe in again. And out. Notice as the sensations and vigour sort of return to your body, maybe thoughts start flowing again. And then with a final breath in, as we exhale, slowly open your eyes. And that's om chanting.