 So now what we're going to do is talk a little bit about japa, which is the practice of repeating a mantra over and over and over again, oftentimes with the use of a mara, or set of prayer beads. So a lot of spiritual traditions will use prayer beads as part of their spiritual practice. And so today we'll introduce a little bit about how to properly use prayer beads. So the first thing to understand is that there are a lot of different kinds of maras. This one in particular is Rudraksh. And Rudraksh is a seed that grows in the Himalayas. So we'll use different kinds of prayer beads to kind of cultivate different sorts of energy. There will also be different numbers of beads on a particular mara. The most common in sort of the Eastern meditative tradition is 108. And you'll notice that, you know, this has a bunch of beads and then it has this guy at the top or bottom. And this is called the guru bead. This is sort of a reminder that when we kind of get around to it, so we're going to go all the way around when we chant, right? We'll use one, do one mantra at a time. And then when you get all the way around, the guru bead sort of reminds you that you're doing japa. And then actually something interesting happens, which is that when you get to the guru bead, you actually don't go past it. You start to go in the reverse direction. So you start to move in the other direction. So it sort of keeps you anchored with how far you are into your practice. And remember that a lot of times when we meditate, it can be confusing to sort of try to keep count of stuff, right? Because remember that when we're meditating, what we're trying to do is enter a state of mind that is sort of the no mind state. So if you really think about it, the goal of meditation isn't mindfulness, it's actually mindlessness. And so the guru bead sort of serves an important function of sort of reminding us that, okay, we're this far into the practice, let's kind of turn around and keep going. So there are a lot of different kinds of prayer beads, and you can sort of try to figure out which one works for you. It can be a little bit aesthetic, depending on what your goals are in meditation, there may be a particular kind of prayer beads that are sort of designed for that. And then the next thing about prayer beads is all about sort of which mantra you use with them. So we're going to teach you Aum, but ideally a mantra should be given by a guru or teacher who sort of understands what your goals are, and sort of what your temperament is, and what kind of mantra will be very helpful for you or will be right for you. I personally was given a mantra like 17, 18 years ago now that I've been doing diligently, which I really think is responsible for a big part of my success. And remember, the idea here is that we're sort of cultivating the spiritual energy. So the more that we cultivate a particular kind of energy, the more something will become manifest in the world. So let's get into the specifics of how to use a mantra. So I've already introduced the guru bead, and essentially what we want to do is hold the prayer beads between our thumb, our third finger, and our fourth finger. And ideally our index finger and pinky finger shouldn't even touch them. And then what we're going to do is chant the mantra. So I'll say om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om. And with each repetition of the mantra, I rotate the prayer beads. We have a whole video about sort of how japa works from kind of a theoretical perspective, and also goes through the sorts of states of mind that we use when we do japa. So we won't go into too much detail about that here. But today we'll focus a little bit on the practice. So if you guys have a set of prayer beads, we can go ahead and start to do the practice together. So I'll actually demonstrate with you. And for those of you who don't have prayer beads, there's actually a really interesting trick. So if you look at the sort of segments on your finger, okay, so if I look at the segments on my finger, what I actually find is that there are 12 of them. So I can start here and then kind of go down, out, like this. And you can actually count to 12 by going through each of the segments of your finger. And once you end over here, you can rotate right back to where we started, which is on the ring finger, and then repeat again. So we can just go like that. And the interesting thing is that 12 times 9 is actually 108. So to do one full mantra using just the segments of your finger, you want to do this 9 times by chanting your mantra. The next thing that we're going to talk about is like, so people are wondering, you know, should I chant it out loud? Should I chant it silently? And so ideally, you want to start by chanting the mantra out loud because it creates a particular kind of vibration. Mantra practice should always be done in isolation, and you should not share your mantra with anyone. The other thing is that I know that these have become a fashion accessory, but mantras should actually not be shown to anyone as well. So your mantra should sort of stay in an enclosed space that it's only taken out when you're actually going to do the spiritual practice. It's not meant to sort of show your how spiritual you are. It's really not meant to be a fashion accessory. So I've been doing a mantra for about 20 years, and in that time, I don't think a single person has ever seen my my mantra. So let's go ahead and begin. Now if you have your mantra, you can go ahead and start with me. If you don't, you can use the fingers, right? You can kind of go through the joints. And what we'll do is 12 rounds of an of om chanting. Now we're going to chant a little bit differently from what we've done elsewhere in the in the module. So we're going to chant om, om, om. We're going to not really do it with a full breath, but really focus on getting in 12 repetitions more rapidly. So let's sit up straight and close our eyes and begin. We'll do 12 beads, OK? Om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om. And now it occurs to me that I actually am not keeping track of how many beads I'm doing because I've gotten so used to using the Mara and using the anchor of the Guru beat. I don't even know how many rounds we've done. So let's just like do a few more. Om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om, om. Let's do three more. Om, om, om, om. So as usual, as you kind of finish your practice, go ahead and relax a little bit. And now let yourself start to come back. Listen to the sound of my words. Notice your bodily sensations as they begin to arise again. And now we're going to take three deep breaths. With our third exhalation, we'll slowly open our eyes. So take a deep breath in. And again. And out. And deep breath in. And slowly open your eyes as you exhale. And so that's how you do japa or sequential mantra practice or use prayer beads.