 So now we're going to teach a practice called yoga nidra. So yoga comes from the Sanskrit word yuj, which means yolk, not like the middle of an egg, but something that binds two things together. So yoga is the practice of sort of learning how to be free from oneself, but also joining the infinite. And nidra is the Sanskrit word for sleep. So yoga nidra is a very specific meditative practice that allows us to enter a particular state of mind that is sort of like sleep, but is like a yogic sleep. So it's not actually sleep. It's the state of mind that's very conducive to connecting with that broader part of ourselves or that universal spirit. Now yoga nidra actually is composed of two separate pieces. One of them, progressive muscle relaxation, has actually been isolated from the broader practice of yoga nidra and scientifically studied. So you'll see a lot of studies on progressive muscle relaxation for things like anxiety or depression. And it turns out that there's good research that shows that this first stage of yoga nidra actually does have clinical benefits. The second stage of yoga nidra, and this is really where the real good stuff comes from, is that we use progressive muscle relaxation to enter a particular state of mind. And in this hypno-yogic state, anything that we sort of repeat to ourselves, and this is where the yogis will come up with something called a sankalpa, a resolve. So we're going to pick a resolve, and once you sort of pick your resolve and you're in the hypno-yogic state, it'll plant that resolve or that sankalpa deep into your mind. And so the cool thing is when we think a little bit about goals that we want to accomplish, we oftentimes think that we need willpower for them. So that my brain's natural inclination is to want to do one thing, and then if I want to accomplish my goal, I have to use willpower to change what my natural impulse is and overcome my natural impulse. The cool thing about using this hypno-yogic state in a sankalpa is that what we're actually doing is changing what the natural impulse is. So suddenly we're able to do things that are more aligned with what we want to accomplish, but it actually doesn't require willpower. In fact, quite the opposite. It becomes very natural. So let's start with phase one of the yoga nidra practice, which is progressive muscle relaxation. Now, this is one of my favorite practices because it's actually done on the floor. So the first thing that I want you all to do is actually lay down on the floor. So I'm going to sort of remain seated just for the sake of kind of demonstrating or walking you through the practice, but I'll guide you through what kind of posture you should be in. So lay down on the floor on your back and let your arms be by your sides and your palms face up and let your ankles kind of naturally fall out to either side. And start by just taking a moment to feel the sensations of your body touching the ground. Now we're going to focus on increasing the points of contact between ourselves and the ground. Notice that with each inhalation, your body lifts up a little bit. You move away from the ground. And with each exhalation, you descend, fall into the floor a little bit. And so with each inhalation and exhalation, try to relax into the floor. Let the floor come up and support the weight of your body. You don't have to hold yourself up right now. Let yourself relax. And with each inhalation and with each exhalation, notice the different parts of your body. Maybe your neck, maybe your lower back, maybe your upper arms or shoulders. And notice how you hold a little bit of tension and pull away from the floor just a tiny bit because you're not relaxed there. And as you scan your body with each exhalation, focus on one part of your body and let it relax. Let the floor come up to embrace it, to support it. And now we'll begin the practice of yoga nidra. So yoga nidra is all about contracting a specific part of our body and then relaxing. And with each breath, we'll contract one part of our body and then we'll relax it with the exhalation. And as we kind of move forward with the practice, we're going to be progressively contracting more and more and more of our body. So we'll start with one muscle group and then with the next breath, we'll do two muscle groups together and then three muscle groups together until we end up with a complete body contraction followed by a complete body relaxation. And now we'll begin. So take a deep breath in and curl your toes, curl your toes, curl your toes, curl your toes. And exhale and relax. Breathe in, curl your toes, and now tighten your ankles, tighten your ankles, ankles, ankles. And relax. Breathe in, curl your toes, tighten your ankles, and now flex your calves, tighten your calves, tighten, tighten, tighten. And out. Breathe in, curl your toes, flex your ankles, tighten your calves, and now lock your knees. Feel that sort of heat and that energy as you hold your breath. Tighten, tighten, tighten, and relax. Deep breath in, curl your toes, tighten your ankles, flex your calves, lock your knees, and now move up to your thighs. Try to flex your thighs along with the rest of your leg. Hold it, hold it, hold it, and out. And now we're just going to take one breath with no tightening, just one regular breath. Let your muscles recover a little bit. And now we'll begin again. Take a deep breath in, curl your toes, ankles, calves, tighten your knees, flex your thighs, and now tighten your buttocks. Tighten, tighten, tighten, tighten, tighten, and out. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, and now make fists. Fists, fists, fists, and relax. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, and now twist your forearms. Twist, twist, twist, feel that tension, that heat, that energy all throughout the lower part of your body, and out. We're going to take just one more breath, relaxing a little bit. Let that heat in your muscle groups sort of fade out. And now we'll begin again. Take a deep breath in, curl your toes, tighten your ankles, tighten your calves, lock your knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, and now curl up at the elbows. Curl, curl, curl, and feel that tension in your biceps. And relax. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, biceps, and now tighten your abdominal muscles. Clench your stomach, clench, tighten, tighten, tighten, tighten, tighten, tighten, feel the heat, the power, the energy within you, and relax. And now deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen, and now tighten your chest, clench your chest muscles, clench, clench, clench, clench, clench, feel that tightness all in the front of your body, down both arms, both legs, hold that breath, and out. And now we'll take one deep breath, just relaxing, letting some of that heat and energy leak its way out of your muscles. And now we'll begin again. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen, chest, and now pull your shoulder blades back. Pull your shoulder blades back. Try to imagine that there's an egg that you're trying to hold up with your shoulder blades. Kind of crack that egg, push that pressure, put the pressure on the egg, tighten, tighten, tighten, and out. And now deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, elbows, biceps, abdomen, chest, back, and now tighten your jaw and your neck. Feel that tension. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze the muscles in your jaw, squeeze the muscles in your neck, and out. And now deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, elbows, abdomen, chest, back, neck, and now your cheeks, and then go up to your forehead. Your forehead and your eyebrows, wrinkle it, tighten it, tighten it, tighten it, tighten it, and out. And now we're going to take one relaxing breath. Let that heat and energy sort of relax out of your muscles and prepare yourself for the final contraction and the final relaxation. So take a deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hips, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen, chest, back, neck, jaw, cheeks, face, forehead, whole body contraction, and hold it. Feel that energy and that heat building up within you, the desire to exhale, the desire to relax, but hold it, hold it, hold it, and out. And now sit in your seat. Hold it, and out. And now sit in this place of silence, this place of relaxation. Notice the vigor of your body, the energy that you felt, the power that you have within you, and also the relaxation of using your body, of contracting your muscles, of generating that energy, and then calming down afterward. Let the ground come up to support you. Let it hold you. You don't need to hold the weight of your body up at all. Let yourself sink into the floor. And so now with your eyes remaining closed, go ahead and slowly sit up and let your back straighten, sit and move into a comfortable position. And now what we're going to do is put our palms together in front of us. So put your palms together so they're touching. And now rub them together with a lot of friction. Feel the heat between your palms, and then cup your palms over your eyes. Take a deep breath in, and as you exhale, slowly open your eyes, covered by your palms. And then we're going to breathe again and let our palms come down. So that's the first phase of Yoga Nidra. Now there are a couple of caveats which we have to go into. The first is that we sort of did an introductory version of Yoga Nidra. I encourage you all, as you learn to practice it, to sort of even go into more detail and more might-nudeness with each muscle group. So you can even go as fine as starting with your right big toe and then add your left big toe. And then add all of your right toes and all of your left toes. And then add specific parts of the foot, and then the ankle, and then the calves. You can curl one finger at a time or sort of focus on particular abdominal muscles, oblique muscles, parts of your chest, parts of your back, lower back, upper back, etc. So over the course of learning Yoga Nidra, what we want to do is sort of lengthen out that practice. That's the first stage at which we can sort of improve over time. So now we're going to go into the second and actually the most important part of the Yoga Nidra practice, which is using a sankalpa in the hypno-yogic state. As you practice more and more and as you get better at the progressive muscle relaxation part of Yoga Nidra, your mind will enter this very, very deep state of relaxation where you're not quite asleep, not quite in a state of dhyana, but you're somewhat still a little bit aware. That's the hypno-yogic state. And so if we come up with a sankalpa or resolve that we can repeat to ourselves in that state, it'll kind of sink far into our unconscious mind. So the question becomes, how do we find the right sankalpa? So this is something that the more you practice, the bigger the sankalpa will become. So we don't want to pick something like a goal, like something external, like I want this job, because even though it may start to generate a little bit of energy, these are the kinds of things where we actually want to practice this sankalpa over the course of months or even years. It's something about yourself that you really want to grow in support. So, for example, we want to pick something that I usually pick something that uses the first person. So I will be or I am or I deserve. So we want to pick something about you, not something about the external world. And try to pick something that's a little bit bigger and a little bit important to you. So, for example, when I work with patients with trauma, one of the sankalpas that I found to be very useful is I deserve to be whole, because these people, as they go about their life, they sort of feel fractured, they feel broken, and they believe that that's actually who they are. So as a result of their trauma, sometimes they'll let other people walk over them or enter into toxic relationships or tolerate toxic behaviors because they feel like they're not good people on the inside. So this sample sankalpa of I deserve to be whole is really powerful for sort of instilling this idea that actually you deserve all of the happiness of life. You deserve to be whole. And there's also a lot of subtlety here because being whole isn't about being perfect. It's not about ego, and it's not even about being only happy, that life has ups and downs, and that what we're really shooting for is a complete life, not a perfect life. So I encourage you to think a lot about what your sankalpa should be. What is it that you sort of envision yourself to be? And as you find the right one and play around with it a little bit, then start to practice it during this second phase, this hypno-yogic state, because that's the real value of yoga nidra.