 So now we're going to do the second phase of Trataka practice, which is Trataka on a Yantra. A Yantra is a tantric symbol of power that sort of cultivates a particular kind of cosmic spiritual energy. But even if we set that stuff aside for a second, what we'll see when we look at a Yantra is that it has lots of different colors and shapes. And so what we're going to do is use those colors and shapes to train our attention to go where we tell it to. If we think about a lot of what holds us back in life, it's that our attention doesn't listen to us. My mind doesn't really obey when I tell it to study a book. So I'll be trying to study, but my attention wanders over here, and then I want to text this person, and I want to get an update on this, and let me check the weather. And so our attention goes all over the place. So we're going to use this Yantra practice to focus our gaze on one point, the center of the Yantra, but then we're going to move our attention between different parts of the Yantra. And notice a particular color here, a shape here, another color over here. So literally what we're doing is training our attention. We're practicing the process of telling our mind to go here, and then go there, and then go here. So let's turn to our Yantra. I have mine in front of my, on the iPad in front of me. We'll share one with you in the supplemental part of this module, but you can actually select your own mantra based on what kind of spiritual energy you want to cultivate. So let's take a look at the Yantra. What we see here is multiple shapes, multiple colors. We see the pattern, but what we're going to do is to do Tratika on that point, that circle, that tiny little dot right in the center. And so we're going to gaze at that point without blinking. And so start to acclimatize yourself to the Yantra and try to look at that point. And then what we're going to do is put our attention on the outermost thing. So start with the question, what is the color that you see at the furthest most edge of your vision? And remember that the goal here isn't to be right or wrong. No one cares about the right answer. What we're really training our mind to do is go to the particular point and notice that you have to concentrate to be able to discover which color is at the furthest outer edge. And that's the point. That's the concentration. That's what we're looking for. And once you notice that color, now move in a layer. What is the next color on the inside? And now let's move in even more. So now I'm noticing another color. And now I'm going to move in even further. I notice a ring of a particular color. And now moving in towards the petals. And I'm keeping my gaze fixed on the dot. Don't look away. And now moving into another layer of petals. Red. And now to the blue triangles. And focusing on the outer edge of the furthest edge of the eye. And now to the blue triangles. And focusing just on seeing the pattern of the blue triangles. And now into the red triangles. And notice that it's becoming a little bit easier to notice the color, the shape, the pattern. So be it. And now into the black triangles. And now to the green. And so easy to see the yellow triangle. And now we're going to move back out. So see the green triangles, see their patterns, see their shape. And now out to the black. Out to the red. Keep your gaze fixed on the dot and let your attention move. And now out to the blue. Out to the red, the petals now. And now out to the yellow. And then a ring. And then green. And then the border lines, which really start to blur together. Notice the yellow, notice the brown. And now what we're going to do is close our eyes. And now look at your Chidakash. See that particular pattern and hold it in your mind. Now we get to the tricky phase of the practice. See how it morphs. It changes shape and color. And notice that it's hard to hold it in your mind, that it requires a certain amount of relaxing to let it float to the surface of your Chidakash. And stare at it. It may start to move, it may start to wander. And with every minute effort you may be able to bring it back into focus. And now relax your mind. Let your eyes stay closed. Let go of the image. Just let it go. Notice the tension. You've been concentrating so hard for the last few minutes. All of your mind has been focused. So now let it relax. And now look at the Chidakash. They're together in front of you and in a Namaste position. Let them touch and then rub them together. Feel the friction, the warmth, the heat. Cup them over your eyes. You may notice that the image actually floats to the surface again. Let it go. Take a deep breath in. And that is Trataka with a Yantra.