 I'd like to share with you all a practice that I've been using for many, many years, which is an Agne Chakra practice. Remember that the Agne Chakra, our third eye center, is the chakra that governs our sense of intuition and understanding. So this practice is all about activating our Agne Chakra, our third eye. So it's interesting because when I teach this practice, I would ask people, what does this practice feel like? Because sometimes when people do this practice, they start to feel kind of strange sensations. And so one person once explained to me that it feels like charging a laser beam, which I know sounds really weird, but I think it's actually a really good description of some of the sensations that people have when they do this practice. So let's dive right in. So the first thing that we're going to do is adopt a particular mudra, and this one is a little bit meme-ish. But basically what we're going to use is use our middle finger to activate our third eye. And so what we'll do is actually go like this, and then I'm going to hover my middle finger right kind of above the center of my eyebrows. So I'll keep my eyes closed, and you don't want the middle finger to touch. You want it to just hover right above. And I encourage you guys to just try this on your own. Close your eyes, sit up straight, and hover your middle finger right kind of above the center of your eyebrows. And what you may notice as you get close is like a slight sensation, a sensation of warmth or maybe pressure. If you don't feel anything, you can move your finger a little bit closer. And we certainly don't want to touch. But just try to find the sensation. Some people will describe it as warmth or pressure or charging our laser beam. And just hover over that for another, let's say, 10 to 15 seconds. And now go ahead and relax your hand. Let your eyes remain closed. And now focus on that same point on your forehead. You may notice a little bit of a sensation right at your forehead. And what I want you to do is try to drive all of your attention into that point. Put all of your concentration and focus into the point. And if you're having trouble feeling anything, you can even gaze at that point with your eyes closed. So focus the attention of your eyes as if you're looking into your forehead. We'll practice for another 30 or 60 seconds. If you're having difficulty, you can try to gaze at the point or return your finger. So let's bring it up again for a moment and sort of recharge that sensation. Now bring it down again and then focus again for another 30 or 60 seconds. And now go ahead and relax. Let go of your attention. Shrug your shoulders a little bit. Let the sensations of your body return. And now what we'll do is take three deep breaths. With our third exhalation, we'll open our eyes. So breathe in and out. And then with our third breath, breathe in. And as you exhale, slowly open your eyes. And that's how we charge our laser beam.