 I'd like to share with you guys a different kind of practice now, and this is a more inquisitive practice. Remember that in some kinds of meditation, we want to focus our mind on one thing, or that we have meditations where we control the breath in a particular way. So those are sort of focusing meditations, but studies that actually look at the brainwave patterns that are generated in different kinds of meditation have actually found that depending on what kind of practice you do, it generates a unique brainwave pattern. And so now we're going to teach you guys a more inquisitive practice. And for some people, you know, they have a lot of trouble sort of focusing their mind by telling it to do one thing repeatedly. And for some people, they're sort of have they have a curious temperament. And if they try to investigate something, it's actually a really wonderful way for them to get into the meditative mindset. So we're going to do a really simple practice called following the breath. And what this practice essentially entails is discovering where within your body the breath goes. Now this is really important to understand about inquisitive practices, because we don't want to use science. We don't want to use book knowledge or information to find an answer. We actually don't want to use logic. We want to use our experience of the breath to discover where it goes. Because if you do this practice, you may be very, very surprised at what you discover about where the breath actually travels in your body. So we're going to start off by paying attention to our nose. And I'm going to ask you guys, what is the temperature of the breath? So let's take a moment to close our eyes and observe the temperature of the breath. We'll do this for about five breaths. And try to figure out as much as you can about the temperature of the breath. You may notice a difference between inhalation and exhalation. So let's go ahead and come back and see what we learned. So the first thing is that most people describe their inhalation as cool and their exhalation as warm. If that wasn't your experience, no big deal. You can continue to do it or really trust in your own experience. We can still move on though, but try to figure out what can I detect about the temperature of the breath. The second phase of the practice is I'm going to ask you, where do you feel whatever you feel about the temperature of the breath? So whether you feel coolness or whether you feel warmth, it really doesn't matter. The next question is where does that sensation arise? And what I want you all to do, we'll start with a couple of breaths and I want you to close your eyes. But as we breathe, I'm going to sort of continue talking and continue guiding you. So let's close our eyes and try to detect where is that sensation of the breath. And so a lot of people may notice it at the tip of their nose or in their nasal passages, in the back of the throat. And so now what I want you guys to do is look for it in particular places. So try to find it at the tip of your nose. And try to find it in your nasal passages. And try to find it in the back of the throat. And now comes the fun part. So now what we're going to do is follow the breath. So notice as it starts at your nose, travels into your nasal passages and into the back of the throat. And then follow it. See where it goes. And this is really where practicing this becomes important because a lot of people may not even be able to feel it in the back of their throat. And that's okay. So just follow the edge of where you feel the breath. And then move just a little bit beyond it. So if you can feel it in your nasal passages, try to feel it sort of right at the very top of your nose. And then try to feel it in your oropharynx, which is the area that connects the back of the throat with the nose. And either you can follow it just a little bit further, a little bit further, a little bit further, or you can look in a particular place and see if the breath actually travels there. Either one is fine. Remember that this is an exploratory practice. And don't get too caught up in not being able to feel it in a particular place. That's not the goal. The goal is really to feel it as far as you can and then try to feel it one step after that, one step beyond that. Now we're going to go ahead and come back. So take a moment to sort of shrug your shoulders, stretch out a little bit, return to the words that I'm saying to you, really kind of let thoughts come back into your mind. And when you're ready, open your eyes. And now we're going to just explain just a little bit more before we wrap up. So like I mentioned earlier, this is an inquisitive or an exploratory practice. So if the answers that I was sort of suggesting don't seem to fit with you, that's totally fine. The key thing to remember is what did your mind do when I was asking you to do the practice? Was it distracted by a bunch of things or did it get kind of really curious and engaged and focused? Were you actually thinking about stuff when you were focusing? Because focusing isn't really thinking. Were you just paying attention to where the breath was or was your mind getting distracted? And if you are paying attention, that means you're doing the practice right. Because remember that the goal of all of these practices is to bring your attention to the present. And now we'll sort of walk you through a little bit more about where this practice ends up. Like I mentioned earlier, you can sort of do this practice two ways. You can see where you naturally detect the breath. And that's what you really want to focus on. This is you focus at the border of what your awareness is. The more time you spend at the border, the more aware you will become of subtle sensations right beyond it. So it doesn't matter where the limit of your attention is. Put your awareness in that place and just detect, detect, detect. If you want to, you can even pick particular parts of your body and direct your attention there. I do encourage you to really explore in places that you wouldn't normally expect the breath to go. Because you may find that that sensation of temperature, coldness, warmth, actually travels to very unexpected places. At the end of the day, walk your own journey. See where the breath goes. See where the breath leads you. And discover where in your body the breath travels.