 So now we're going to share a couple of Anahata Chakra practices with you. So remember that the Anahata Chakra is the Heart Chakra. So a lot of people are curious about how to develop the capacity to forgive, how to let go of regrets, or even how to develop self-compassion. So these practices are aimed at sort of giving you an opportunity to start getting in touch with your Anahata Chakra, to start sort of cleaning it out and activating it. Let's start with namaste. Namaste is the Sanskrit word which means, I salute the divinity within you. So in ancient India and even in modern India, it's used as a greeting to other people. It's sort of acknowledging that the other person has a spark of the divine and a spark of perfection within them and that we're actually saluting this human being as a piece of God. So it's sort of a very open and sort of welcoming, respecting gesture. And we'll open and close many spiritual practices with a namaste. So we're going to go ahead and adopt the namaste. And the cool thing is that the namaste is actually something called a mudra as well. So mudra is a hand sign. So you guys may have seen this kind of business or sometimes you'll see this or this. And so the idea is that there are particular circuits of energy that run through our body. And when we adopt a particular mudra, we're cultivating a particular kind of energy. So I think the energy of the namaste mudra is actually called the Anjali mudra, is actually sort of an Anahata or sort of heart chakra kind of energy. So now we're going to teach you guys a particular practice that's grounded in the namaste that sort of activates our heart chakra. So we're going to start off by adopting Anjali mudra or the namaste. And I want you guys to keep your elbows parallel to the ground and put your hands together. So you may notice a little bit of a stretch in your wrists because we usually keep our hands like this. But as we do this, we're going to feel kind of like a stretch in our wrists, which is totally fine. And you're also going to feel a pressure as your palms kind of press against each other. Notice that as my elbows become parallel to the ground, it's going to increase the amount of pressure I feel between my hands. So if I do this, the pressure is going to be low. And if I do this, the pressure is going to be high. So let's adopt sort of a parallel to the ground elbow position in Anjali mudra. And now what I'm going to ask you all to do in a second is close your eyes. And then what we're going to do is actually pull our hands apart. And as we pull our hands apart, we're going to notice particular sensations between our palms. And then as we move our hands forward and backward, we'll kind of focus on what we feel in that space. So let's adopt Anjali mudra. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath in and out to center yourself. And then pull apart just a tiny bit. And so notice what you feel immediately. Sort of a gravitation, a desire to put your hands together. They kind of naturally want to go in. And I also want you all to pay attention to the temperature that you feel between your hands. And it feels, to most people, like warmth. I would describe this sensation as a cushion of air. And now what we're going to do is pull our hands apart just a little bit more, relaxing them a little bit. You may still notice the gravitation, but notice that cushion of warm air between them. Now pull them apart a little bit more. And focus on that sensation. And then we'll pull apart even more. And now it can almost feel like you're holding a warm globe of air. If you've lost that sensation, go ahead and come back in. So let's all go into very close, where we feel that gravity again. We feel that warm air between our palms. Let's expand a little bit more. And a little bit more. So now what we're going to do is actually more fluidly expand and contract. So for some people, you can go ahead and open your eyes. For some people, what they want to do is like, we're going to do this and then do this. But for other people, what they really like to do is feel that expansion more gradually. And then the contraction is I put my arms together. And so now we're going to do it in more of a smooth manner. So go ahead and close your eyes and then pull apart slowly. And almost like dough between your hands, pull apart that cushion of air. And now we're going to squeeze it. We're going to compress it together. Feel the squeeze and compression. And pull it apart again. And now compress it. And so take a moment to practice however you prefer. Where remember, the goal is to feel that warmth or that sensation. Move a little bit out. Move a little bit back in. And we'll practice for about 30 seconds. And now as we sort of wrap up, return to Anjali Mudra for a moment. Put your palms together. And now we're going to separate our palms with our eyes closed and lay them face up on our knees. And now what I want you all to notice is the warmth or the energy or the heat coming out of the top of your palms. And sit with that sensation. If you lose track of the feeling, no problem. But as best as you can, feel that warmth radiating off of the top of your palms. And now we'll take three deep breaths to return ourselves. So take a deep breath in. And as you exhale, notice the sounds around you. Take a deep breath in. And as you exhale, notice your body. And with a final deep breath in, open your eyes as you exhale. So that's the practice of namaste expansion. It's an anahata chakra practice, which means that it'll sort of start to cultivate a sense of forgiveness, a sense of compassion. It'll kind of wake up those parts of your spiritual being. So not everyone feels a whole lot the first time they do this practice. Some people will sort of feel a lot of warmth kind of right away, and they feel very comfortable kind of moving in and out. Other people may feel it just when your hands are like this. Some people feel the gravity a little bit more than the warmth. Whichever one you feel is actually completely fine. The key thing to remember is that these practices are about expanding your awareness. So even if you're here, it's totally fine. The goal is to move a little bit out and see if you can actually detect it. And so wherever you sort of naturally end up, extend just a little bit further and see if you can find that warm sensation. Because the goal of these practices is to become aware of subtler and subtler things. And as you become aware of the subtlety within yourself, you'll start to become aware of the subtle impulses, like where your thoughts come from, or maybe some emotion that's actually buried in your unconscious that's sneakily exerting itself to create a particular behavior. The path of yoga is ultimately the path of increasing awareness and increasing subtlety.