 Now we're going to move on to a little bit of the principles behind energy healing and actually teach you guys sort of an introductory energy healing practice. This practice is really designed to be done after you've done namaste expansion for a couple of weeks because this practice requires you to be able to feel some of the sensations that we feel through namaste expansion. So energy healing is a really fascinating concept and a lot of people will swear by it. I've worked with some energy healers who are really, really magnificent and have really accomplished amazing things. Unfortunately the majority of energy healers that I've worked with don't seem to really have a clinical impact on the patients that they try to treat. And if you look at the research on energy healing, it's not actually very promising because on average energy healing can improve things like quality of life or sensations of pain, which are absolutely really important things, but don't appear on average to actually create clinically significant changes in people. If we look at the system of energy healing, there's really no quality control on practitioners. So anyone can sort of take a course and become an energy healer. So how do we know if it really works or doesn't work? What we're focused on today though is that a lot of people are curious about this concept And some of the practices that we learn are actually going to cultivate some of the things that are important for energy healing. So I've just chosen to include this more as sort of an introduction to it as opposed to a particular practice that you should do to try to cure yourself or anyone else of anything. So let's return to our practice of namaste expansion in which we sort of went like this and then we kind of expanded and we felt warmth in our hands. If you weren't able to feel the warmth kind of come out of your hands, then I don't think you're quite ready for this next stage of the energy healing practice. So we're going to start by sort of sitting upright and closing your eyes. Take a moment to center yourself. You can also take a moment to sort of do the anjali mudra or namaste expansion to kind of re-center yourself in that sensation of warm energy or heat coming out of your palms and then place them face up on your knees. And now what I want you all to do is feel that warmth radiating from the top of your hands. Envision a light or a warmth or an energy entering from the top of your head, the very crown of your skull as if it's a receptor and there's kind of a cone of energy or light entering into the top of your head. And that that energy sort of travels along the back of your spine, across your shoulders, down your arms and all the way to your hands where you can feel it radiating off. So it's almost like there's a circuit between the energy entering your head, traveling down your arms and out into the world. And now what I want you to do is visualize that which you want to direct the energy to. So it can potentially be a part of yourself, whether it's your mind if you're feeling anxious or even a location in your body, like a pain in your back or maybe your stomach or skin, or even visualize another person. Now feel that warmth, that energy that's radiating off of your palms. Feel it coming off and then try to direct it towards your target of choice. In the case of another person, imagine it flowing towards them. In the case of yourself, imagine it flowing towards a particular organ or part of your body. And really focus on this complete circuit of energy entering the top of your head, traveling through your body, out your arms and towards its target, its goal. And feel that flow. We'll continue for about another 30 seconds. And now let your hands come together and Anjali Mudra put them together in Namaste position. And offer thanks for being able to feel these sensations, for being able to support your self or another human being. And take a moment to acknowledge the divinity within you and all around you. And with a deep breath in and as you exhale, slowly open your eyes. So this is meant to be an introduction to this idea of energy healing. And in my experience, doing practices around energy healing, a lot of times people will tell you to visualize things or imagine things. And we certainly did that too. But in both my attempts to learn energy healing as well as teach energy healing, what I've found is that I need an experience. I need something that I can actually put my attention into that actually feels real as opposed to a figment of my imagination. And so the reason that we teach the practices in this way is that hopefully if none of the other stuff works, at least you can ground yourself on that sensation of warmth coming out of your palms. And let that be the foundation for all of the other steps of this practice. So I hope this has been pretty useful for you. A lot of people are curious about energy healing. And I encourage you to sort of take your time in exploring this on your own. Give it a shot. And maybe even after you've been doing it for a week or two, don't clome in but ask the person that you're directing it towards if they feel anything different. You never know what they're going to say.