 As we further explore the Anahata chakra practices, we're going to start to really get into the meaning of what Anahata is and really give you guys a very foundational and exploratory practice around the Anahata chakra. Remember that the Anahata chakra is our heart chakra, and practices that are sort of geared towards the Anahata chakra are designed to teach us things like forgiveness and self-compassion. And so this practice is pretty exploratory, pretty inquisitive, and also actually quite difficult to do. It's one of the practices that if you sort of do it successfully, it'll really open up your Anahata chakra and really give you a deeper understanding of how stuff works. So we're going to start with what Anahata means. So Anahata means unstruck. And what it really means is sort of this unstruck sound. So the Anahata is sort of the fundamental sound which is created without friction. And so the first part of the practice is really, really simple. It's to notice any sound that you hear and try to see whether that sound is caused by friction, whether that sound is caused by one thing touching or hitting another. So for example, both of those sounds are made by impact, contact. And so those things are not Anahata. And so as you go about your day, this isn't really something that you have to do kind of sitting there. You can do this practice all throughout your day. Listen to different sounds and ask yourself, are these sounds created by one thing striking another or friction of some kind? And you can even pay attention to subtle things like the wind and really ask yourself, what creates the sound of the wind? And as you go on finding different things and different things and different things, see if it is a sound that's made from friction, discard it because that is not Anahata. And what we're really looking for is the unstruck sound. So as you go about your day, look at different kinds of sounds. And even as you do meditation practice, as we do other kinds of practices, I want you periods of silence afterward, listen to the sounds that are available to you. Listen to the sounds within yourself. Listen to your heart beat and the sound of your breath and ask yourself once again, what are these sounds made by? Are they made by friction or are they the unstruck sound? And if you listen really, really carefully and sort of discard and pay attention to all of the sounds that you hear, hopefully if you're lucky with diligent practice, you will find Anahata, the unstruck sound.