 Now we're going to introduce two techniques that are Bratthya-Hara-oriented techniques, which means sensory withdrawal techniques, as well as important techniques to help you understand the nature of your true self. So remember that Bratthya-Hara is the practice of sensory withdrawal and is a part of the path of Raja Yoga. So the path of Raja Yoga says that there's a stepwise formula to attain enlightenment. And Bratthya-Hara is one of the key pieces of that road. And Bratthya-Hara is all about restraining your sense organs and pulling your attention within yourself. So we're going to teach you a practice called Brahmari Pranayam, which is bee's breath. It's a particular kind of breathing where we're going to buzz like a bee. And then on top of that, we're going to use another mudra, or sort of hand sign, like these things, to sort of enhance the practice and deepen our sense of withdrawal into ourselves. So we're going to start with Brahmari Pranayam, which is essentially we're going to buzz like a bee. So we're going to go, but we're going to add a Bratthya-Hara component to it by actually putting our thumbs inside our ear canals. So if you look at your ear, you know, you have this little flap at the front called the pinna. And so behind the pinna is your ear canal. So what we're going to do is put our thumb into our ear canal to really block it out. And then we're going to buzz like a bee. So let's practice once just doing a bee's breath. So kind of buzz like a bee at home. And then what we're going to do is add that component of this. So let's go ahead and plug our ears, which is going to be a little bit weird because then you won't be able to hear me. So we're going to plug our ears and we're going to buzz like a bee three times. So three of those breaths and then we'll kind of come back. So close your eyes. Put your thumbs behind the pinna of your ears. And then buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Now go ahead and come on back. And now we've sort of explored the first part of the practice, which is Brahmaripranayam. If you notice when you engage in this practice, what happens to your thoughts? What happens to your awareness? You'll find that generally speaking, when I'm conscious and awake during the day, my awareness is split up between all of my senses. The sense of sight, the sense of smell, the sense of sound. My attention is completely outside of myself. I'm listening to what people are saying. I'm reading this. I'm watching this. And so Brahmaripranayam is a really powerful way to sort of pull all of our attention within ourselves, to sort of obliterate thoughts from our mind and be completely enveloped in this sound of a buzzing breath. So that's Brahmaripranayam. And now we're going to enhance it a little bit with something called Shanmukhi Mudra, which means the closing of the nine gates. So the yogis sort of realize that we have five sense organs and that these sense organs are the way which our attention leaves the inner part of us and goes to the outside world. So what we're going to do is close those nine gates, and we've already closed these two, and then we're going to buzz like a bee. And when we do that, we're going to obliterate the entire outer world, and we're going to be completely enveloped within. We're going to do five rounds of Brahmaripranayam with Shanmukhi Mudra. And afterward, I want you guys to sit in the space post meditation and sort of start to really feel what you are and what your awareness is. So let's start by sort of getting into Shanmukhi Mudra. So Shanmukhi Mudra is a little bit complicated, so bear with me. So we've already figured out the thumb bit. So what we're going to do is pinkies at the corners of our mouth. And you have these little grooves right outside of your nostrils. So we're going to put our ring fingers there. We're going to put middle fingers on the inside of the eye and index finger on the outside of the eye. So we're going to kind of plug up our senses kind of like this. So take a moment to sort of practice that. For some people, if this becomes too uncomfortable, you can actually just lay the index fingers above your eyebrows. But we're going to kind of stick with this. And then we'll go into the ears for just a second. And that forms Shanmukhi Mudra. So go ahead and take a second to practice it if you want to. Remember it's pinkies over here, ring finger over here, middle finger in the middle, and then index finger on the outside of the eyes, and then finish off with your thumbs and your ears. So once you get a hang of that, now we're going to combine the two. And we're going to do five rounds of Brahmari Pranayama, so five breaths. And then we're going to sit in this space, which has been completely cleaned out by all of this bee's breath. And we'll do that for about 30 to 60 seconds. And then I'll bring you back out of the meditation. So adopt Shanmukhi Mudra. And begin. And now let yourself return. Notice the sensations of your body. Maybe a little bit of discomfort there. Maybe an itch over here. Maybe a touch of hunger. And notice that as you listen to my words, the thoughts return as well. Maybe you begin to notice sounds. And see how your attention returns to the outside world. Maybe you remember you have something that you need to do or a task that needs to be completed and an errand that needs to be run. And for a few moments, all of those parts of your life, your identity, were completely absent. And now they start to flow back in. So now we're going to take a deep breath in and out and open our eyes. So inhale. And as you exhale, slowly open your eyes. So Brahmari Pranayam and Shanmukhi Mudra are really, really important pratyahara practices. So much of our mind is spent on the outside of the world. And so we sort of forget who we truly are. That no matter what your circumstances are, what your name is, even what your gender is, you have this peace within you that is always there, is constant, and is actually formless. That's the true nature of self. The space that you feel in the person that exists at the end of these practices is who you truly are. And so I encourage you guys the next time you do the practice. And when you do a lot of these practices going forward, to ask yourself, who am I after the practice is over? And try to see this person that you exist, if this is the only thing that you had ever known about yourself, if this was your constant experience of life, then who would you be? Would you be a man or would you be a woman? Would you define yourself by a profession or the amount of money in your bank account or the status of your social media? Because this practice is the beginning of a journey to find who you truly are. And actually the answer is right there. Not only is it the beginning of the journey, it's actually the end of the journey. It's the complete journey. And so do this practice and start to discover the nature of the true self.