 A lot of people will ask, how do I gain the sense of detachment or vairagya? How do I learn how to take a step back from life? And remember that the yogis discovered that our mind has these two qualities, rag, which means attraction, and dvesh, which means repulsion. That as we move through life naturally, our mind is attracted to some things and repulsed from other things. So if you think about it, the first time you eat a food, you may like it or you may dislike it. There's no logic to it, there's no reason to it. It's sort of a natural inclination of the mind. There are some things that we may find very alluring, like let's say gardens or flowers or things like that. And that same thing in a different mind can actually be repulsive. If you have allergies and things like that, you may find gardens and flowers to actually want to steer clear of. So rag and dvesh, this capacity of attraction and repulsion, are fundamentals of the mind. And if we really look at it, it is our lack of control over rag and dvesh that gets us into trouble. So if I'm feeling hungry, my mind will have a rag, an attraction towards something very unhealthy. And it'll have a dvesh towards like calorie light food or healthy food. And similarly, if I want to study, my mind has a rag towards watching a TV show or playing a video game. And it has a dvesh from like reading this kind of boring book. So a lot of the things that hold us back in life are actually can be reduced to rag and dvesh. So then the question is, how do we gain power over these things? There's a really simple meditation exercise, which is probably the most diabolical meditation exercise I'm going to teach you. And that's the next time you go to a restaurant or the next time you have a choice about what kind of food to eat, don't pick your favorite food. Whatever you were going to order, pick something that you like a little bit less. And so this is really, really important. You don't want to pick the worst thing because there's a weird rag or attraction in that too. And some people, if they pick the least delicious thing on the menu, they'll tell themselves like, oh my God, like this is me strengthening my willpower and this is me like, you know, doing something really good for myself and really healthy for myself. And so oddly enough, there's a rag towards doing this sort of willpower enhancing exercise. So we want to be really careful to not recruit that degree of rag or attraction. So what we're going to do is just move one step down. Instead of our favorite thing, we're going to pick our second favorite thing and we're going to do so with awareness because watch out what your mind does every step of the way. It may tell you things like, oh, I understand the point of this practice. I figured out what he's trying to do. Therefore I'm not doing it. But at the end of the day, that's still your rag sort of taking over. It's still your rag working because if you order your favorite food, if you say, oh, I understand the point of this exercise. Therefore I don't need to do it. So let me just eat what I want to. That's your rag actually slipping in and taking control of you. And so then a lot of people will wonder, okay, how long should I do this exercise? And this is where I would say forever. And notice what your mind does then. It's like, wait a minute, but aren't I supposed to learn something and then I can eat my favorite food? And isn't that sort of how it works? Don't I learn something and then I get to eat it again? No, you don't. You can never eat your food again. Your favorite food can never be eaten by you again. And notice what happens in your mind. Right? Does it say, hey, that's not fair. Do I have to do this now? And be careful because what's actually taking control of your mind? What's dictating what you do? Is it the rag and the dvesh or is it you? And so the key thing about this exercise is to notice what happens when you eat something that is not your favorite. Right? See what happens with rag. See what happens with dvesh. And more importantly, see how tolerable it is. What is it like to not eat your favorite thing at this meal? What is it like to think about not eating your favorite meal ever again? And all of the rebellions that your mind has, notice that those are rag and those are dvesh. And also pay attention to the enjoyment that you may have because you may actually discover that not eating your favorite food is actually perfectly fine. And if that's your experience, what you'll really discover is, hold on a second, rag and dvesh want this particular thing, but the more that I don't do what rag and dvesh want, I'm actually okay with that. I don't need them to dictate what I should be eating and what I should be doing. As you discover that a life without giving in to your likes and dislikes is actually completely enjoyable, it is incredibly liberating and that forms the basis of detachment. So it's really kind of tricky. It's a different kind of practice. It's a very difficult practice, but I encourage you all to try to sort of take a step back and observe what happens in your mind when you start to tell rag and dvesh, we're not going to listen to you and see how they act, see how they sort of function in your mind, see how slippery they are because they're really, really slippery and discover what you can about sort of the nature of your likes and dislikes and how to gain power over them.