 If we look at the yogic worldview, what we discover is that a lot of our suffering comes from our view of the self, that we don't really realize who we are, and that our attachments to our ego or identity are the source of our suffering. For example, if I identify as a doctor and then lose my license, suddenly it feels like I've lost a piece of myself. So thankfully the yogis sort of discovered what we truly are, and we can start walking that path of discovery today. This is a meditation technique that's a little bit different. It's a little bit more in the inquisitive or exploratory style. So this isn't going to be something that we really do or something that we focus on, but really something that we pay attention to. So several times over the course of this module, we're going to teach you guys different meditation techniques. And during those meditation techniques, especially at the end, we'll sort of enter this calm state of mind. And what I want you all to do is in those moments, ask yourself, what am I? Who am I? Because a lot of times when we answer that question, we'll come up with particular answers. We may identify with our gender or our profession or a relationship that we have, like I'm a son or I'm a dad. But I want you to ask yourself in those quiet moments of meditation, when you experience yourself, where are those qualities? If I sit there and sort of observe my breath, how can I tell that I'm a doctor? Where does that doctorness actually come from? Does it come from the outside? Is it because I have a piece of paper that has medical doctor on it at home? Is that what makes me a doctor? Is it because other people treat me as a doctor? So if a bunch of humans believe something about me, is that what determines who I am? So in these quiet moments, ask yourself, who am I? And then really look for it, right? Try to biopsy yourself or look within yourself. Examine on the inside. What is the nature of this particular attribute of my identity? Where is the masculinity within me? Where is the femininity within me? You know, whatever you identify with, really look for it. And so some people may even say something like, OK, well, if I'm looking for the masculinity, Dr. K, I clearly I have genitals. That's where my masculinity is. That's what makes me a man. So think about that for a second and really look at it critically. When you think of yourself as a man, do you base it on the physical sensation of your genitals? If we think about even people who go through surgery, so sometimes we'll have things like testicular cancer or ovarian cancer or hysterectomies. If you're a cancer survivor and we remove your ovaries or your uterus, are you do you lose your sense of gender identity along with it? So really be critical and try to find what is it inside me? What do I experience that determines who I am? And the more that you look for these qualities that you identify with, you may discover something really, really bizarre, which is that these things that you are may be incredibly hard to find. But at the end of the day, only you can do the looking. But be really careful because sometimes the answers that you may come up with will be thoughts. Right. And this is where you'll say, oh, I'm a doctor because something, something, something. But is that a thought? Is that an experience on the outside of the world? Or is it something that's really a part of who you are? So I encourage each of you to try this meditation technique if you're trying to figure out what is the nature of your true self. As you begin to ask these questions, a cool side effect will start to happen, which is that these attributes which we normally identify with and cause us suffering will actually start to be a little bit less important to us. This is a really important technique for developing viragya or detachment. So in those quiet moments of meditation, or maybe when you're taking a hike or taking a shower or when you're taking a walk outside, try to find out who you really are. What is this experience of self that you have?