 And so if you've done the practice on trying to discover what the self is, and you've looked at different attributes, then you're really ready for this next video. So if you've really looked at yourself and tried to find masculinity or femininity or a particular profession or a particular relationship, then you're sort of ready for this next part. Because what I'm going to share with you is essentially what the yogis discovered about what the true self is. So they defined it with two words, neti neti. Neti means not this, not this. So essentially what they discovered is that any attribute of your being, which you can describe using words or point to, like a profession, like a relationship, like a gender identity, like a net worth, like a skill at a particular instrument or video game, all of these things or even like a title or job title or trophies on your wall or medals, all of these things that you can point to, if you can point to it, it isn't actually a part of who you really are. And so the truest experience of self and the part of self that is genuinely underneath all of the trappings of life is neti neti. So if you ask yourself the question, who am I? And you're able to come up with an answer. If you're able to encapsulate it with words, with descriptions, with attributes, the yogis would say that's actually not who you are because the truest experience of self is actually somewhat formless. It's neutral. It's also described using the Sanskrit word sunya, which means void and also encapsulates the concept of zero. So test your experiences, test your discoveries against this concept of neti neti and see if what you really are is not this, not this.