 The next meditation I want to teach is meditation that's really good for people who aren't good at meditation. So if we think about traditional meditation, we sort of have this idea that we have to sit still, kind of focus our mind on one thing. But for a lot of people, especially like the patients that I work with who have ADHD, they have a lot of trouble getting their mind to sit still. And so meditation feels excruciating and difficult, and they wind up feeling like they're just not very good at it. So the cool thing is it turns out that there are actually techniques specifically designed for minds that are very, very active. And so what we want to start with is sort of an understanding of what happens in a very active mind. So the very active mind is kind of like the wind, right? So it blows this way, gets curious about this, it moves in that direction, and then it will sort of examine something over here, and then it'll move over there and kind of examine something over there. And so it's very difficult for these people to sit down and get their mind to sit still. And the beautiful thing is that there are actually really good ways that we can get a mind to sit still that are actually really easy. And all we have to do is think a little bit about kids. So how do you get a kid to sit still? If I want to feed my kids dinner in the evening or put them to bed at night, how do I get them to actually sit in one place? The more that I try to force them to sit in one place and I kind of say, no, you need to sit still, sit still and eat your food. They're wiggling, they'll try to, they'll do their best and they'll really try to sit still for like a few minutes, but then they'll start wriggling again. So how do you get a kid to sit still? You tell them to run, right? So before dinner, if they're playing in the yard and they're running and getting all their energy out, or if we do a fun activity before bed and they can kind of tire themselves out then a child will naturally sit still, right? Kids sit still all the time, but when do they do it? After they've been running, after they've been playing. And so we can use that same principle with our mind. So this is a technique that I call the rotating sound awareness meditation. And so essentially sometimes our mind will want to move very quickly. So we're going to actually do that. Not only are we going to let it move very quickly, we're going to actually push it. We're going to tell it to move as fast as it can for as long as it can. We're going to push the mind to its limits. And once we exhaust it, it'll naturally sit still. Now this is a meditation that's a little bit hard to teach in a setting like this because what it actually requires is a bunch of sound and a bunch of distraction. The cool thing is that if you're in a situation where it's very hard to get a quiet place to meditate, you can actually do this technique instead. So essentially what we want to do, it's pretty simple, but we want to rotate our awareness between as many sounds as we can as rapidly as we can. So the perfect place to do this is something like a crowded cafeteria. So when I was teaching meditation to my patients in a hospital, we'd actually walk down to the cafeteria and do this meditation there. So we'd sit in the cafeteria and I'd instruct them to try to catch as many sounds as they can as rapidly as they can. But don't attend to any sound. Don't sort of follow it or pay attention to it. But try to move as quickly as you can. Don't even let your mind sit down for a second. Push it, encourage it to move on. So for example, sitting in a cafeteria, I'd encourage them to notice like, okay, there's a phone ringing over there, someone's walking by, someone dropped something in the trash, someone's talking, someone else is walking by, someone else clanked their cutlery together, someone is slurping something, another cell phone. And you're actually trying to push them to notice as many things as they can as rapidly as they can. And this is the key thing is sometimes the mind is going to want to listen, right? So if you hear people talking, your mind is going to want to pay attention and actually listen to their words. And this is what we're going to do is we're not going to let the mind do that. We're going to push it. We're going to actually push it on to the next thing. And so when people do this very rapidly from one thing to the next to the next to the next to the next to the next to the next, when you push the mind that wants to move as fast as it can go, eventually it'll tire out. And the really fascinating thing is it doesn't even take that long. It takes about three minutes, four minutes, maybe five minutes. And then their mind is exhausted. It's a little bit tired. Now it's actually ready to rest. And so then we sort of complete the practice and then we sort of roll into a different kind of meditative practice, like a breathing practice or a different kind of focusing practice or dharana. But now the mind is actually ready for it. So suddenly these people with ADHD who had so much difficulty meditating, if they sort this thing on, they can actually meditate very, very well. And for a lot of them, they didn't even need another practice. They sort of attended to various stimuli over and over and over again. And suddenly they found themselves in a state of dhyana, in a no mind state. And their mind would actually shut off completely. So the rotating sound awareness is a really good technique for people who have something like ADHD or for people whose minds are really wandering a lot, for people who can't meditate normally. The good news is that it's not actually the sound that's important. It's actually the rotation. So I also do this practice like standing outside with some of my patients or I'll tell them to look at a tree and I'll tell them to see every single leaf on the tree one at a time. And that task is so damn exhausting. But I tell them go ahead and do it. And they look at one leaf and then the next and the next and the next and the next and the next. And there are so many leaves and our mind can jump around as much as it wants to and will never get to the end of the tree. And the cool thing is the same thing happens. They can do that practice for a while and then they get exhausted and they close their eyes and they slip into meditation. So the rotating sound awareness, the rotating sight awareness or any other kind of visual stimuli or sound stimuli or whatever you want to use is actually perfectly fine. We can also rotate through our physical awareness and attend to our toes and then our foot and then our heel and then our shin. The most important thing is the rotation. And if you push your mind and it's very, very active, eventually it'll calm down. And that's the secret of how to meditate if you're not good at meditating.