 Now what we're going to do is approach understanding the self through a different vehicle. So some of the practices that we share about understanding the self are really inquisitive and exploratory in nature. They're not really so much about noticing things as they are about asking yourself questions or looking inside yourself. And remember that there are different kinds of minds that respond to different kinds of meditation. So for some people inquisitive practices are fantastic. Other people really enjoy more physical practices or breath practices. And some people really enjoy the grounding influence of the indriyas or the sense organs. Some people really, really love to do like mindful listening or sort of thrataka or something using a particular sense organ. So now what we're going to do is sort of combine a couple of these things. So we can start to explore the self, but the way that we're going to explore the self is actually via our sense organs or indriyas. So I want you guys to stop for a second and think a little bit about how you normally conceptualize what you are and what the outside world is. Usually the dividing line between you and the outside world are the sense organs or indriyas. Right? So I hear something out there. The hearing happens here and the sound happens out there. So the first thing that you've got to do to really be able to do this practice is be able to appreciate and notice that sounds are outside me and I am sort of inside me. If you guys are looking for a good way to kind of learn how to do this, we have a couple of meditations like the rotating sound awareness meditation, a rotating sight awareness meditation that really can sort of train you in paying attention to different sounds or sights. So let's kind of start by kind of closing our eyes and I want you all to notice that sounds are outside you. And then what we want you to do is actually pay attention to the faculty of hearing. So don't focus on a particular sound, but notice that you have this ability to hear. So sometimes what I'll tell people to do is when they are in a noisy place, don't listen to the sounds or pay attention to the sounds. Pay attention to your ears and the fact that you're hearing different things. And so something subtle happens when you do that. When you really stop and pay attention to your ears, the sounds start to kind of blur away. You're not really attending to them. You're not really paying attention to them. But something else really happens that's actually really interesting, which is then suddenly the faculty of hearing moves from within you to outside of you. Because now you're over here and you're looking at the faculty of hearing. So suddenly hearing, or you can do it with sight or another sensation, becomes a part of the external world and is no longer you because you're sitting here looking at it. You can also do this with sight. So you can look at particular objects, but then you can also notice in this moment, and just try this for a second, notice that your mind is able to see things, that you have a faculty called sight. And really pay attention to your eyes and pay attention to the phenomenon of seeing. And if you do that, it's going to be kind of a weird sensation. For me, what it sort of feels like is I kind of zoom out and I see everything around me. The whole frame of my sight becomes visible. And that's what the faculty of sight is. And at the end of the day, what we sort of started with is I'm over here and hearing is inside me and sounds are in the outside world. And what I'm actually doing is moving the faculty of hearing out here. And I'm still watching it from over here. And you can even go a little bit further or sort of take a different route. And if you think about words that you hear, sometimes words that you hear will create changes within your mind. So if I hear a particular word, I'll create an emotion of happiness or sadness, or I'll feel frustrated or I'll feel elated. And it's kind of interesting because that's just, you know, it's just a vibration. That's literally what sound is. It's just a frequency and wavelength of energy that's suddenly creating this disturbance within my mind. And so the next way to look at it is to kind of notice that, right? It's weird that I have this thing called my mind and I have words out here and I can pay attention to those words and I'm in here. And then I have the faculty of hearing, which I used to think was a part of me, but it's actually outside me. And then I have the consequence of the faculty of hearing or of the words that I listen to that create emotions within my mind. And if I have those emotions in my mind, I normally think of those as part of me. And so instead what we can do is we notice the emotion, suddenly what are we and what is the emotion? Because the emotion becomes part of my mind. It becomes part of my body, but it isn't me. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but just pay attention to the language that I use. I am sad versus my mind is experiencing sadness. And so if I start talking about my mind, what is the possessive there? Who is the person that's doing the owning if the mind is the object that's owned? So it's kind of a weird technique, but I encourage you all to kind of play around in it, sort of swim around in this idea of noticing a sound and then noticing the faculty of hearing and noticing the effect of the outside world on my mind. And the more that you kind of move between these concepts, the more you'll sort of separate from your false self and the more you'll move towards your true self.