 So sleep and meditation are also related because meditation is ultimately the exploration of different states of consciousness. In most of our life, we live in waking consciousness, but it turns out that we have this other kind of state of consciousness or state of mind right at our fingertips, which are things like sleep and dreaming. So by learning techniques, meditation techniques, to become more adept at sleeping and dreaming, we can actually start to open the door to even further states of consciousness. So the first technique that I'm going to teach you is really, really simple, but incredibly difficult. And that is to catch the moment of sleep. So this may sound a little bit weird, but I want you all to appreciate for a second that I'm awake and then I'm asleep. And if we think about it, these two states, we view them as binary, but like all things in life, there actually has to be a transition. We have to move from one to the other. And so as you lay in bed at night, try to catch the moment of sleep. And you may have sort of felt it coming or sometimes early in the morning, you're kind of half awake. So you're in this sort of in between state between sleep and waking. And you may recall that after you wake up, but you're not quite aware of it when it happens. So this technique very simply is to catch the moment of sleep. So notice that you're awake, you're awake, you're awake. And then usually you don't even catch the moment to sleep. You're gone. And then you're waking up the next morning. So pay attention. It requires a lot of focus, a lot of concentration, a lot of awareness, and catch that moment of sleep. Incredibly simple, but incredibly difficult. The second technique that I want to teach you guys has to do with dreaming. And so a lot of people will sort of notice that the dreaming state is actually very similar to the waking state. And if you really tunnel down into it, the experiences that we have in dreams can feel just as real as the experiences we have in real life, right? The emotions, the fear that you feel when you're being chased by a monster in your dream feels absolutely real. And you can even recall how intense and terrible that fear was. So the next thing that we're going to teach you is a technique to help you become aware in your dreams. And this technique too is very simple to do. It isn't necessarily hard, but it requires a certain amount of like elegance about finding the sweet spot before it actually starts to kick in. So this technique is simply to tell yourself throughout the day that you're dreaming. Now I don't want you to do anything that is reckless or dangerous as a result. Don't actually change the way that you live your life, but start to train your mind to become aware of the fact that you were dreaming. And so as you go throughout your day, tell yourself that, you know, oh, this is a dream and this is a dream and this is a dream. Be sure to take your life seriously. Don't do anything dangerous. Because in this life, it's really important to take everything that you do seriously. We're not really saying that you should discount life at all. And remember that even in a dream, that's a life that you take seriously. If you're being chased by a monster, you absolutely run with all of your vigor. So it's not about ignoring anything about the real world or ignoring anything about the dream. It's really about training your mind with a certain automaticity to become aware that this is a dream, that this may not actually be real. It's really not about how you treat your life. It's about waking up that awareness automatically. And so as you're in the dream, if you've trained yourself properly, you'll become aware and you'll notice this is a dream. This is a dream. This is a dream. And then something really wonderful happens. And it's incredibly hard to describe, but you become aware in dreams. So remember that meditation and sleep are actually very similar in some ways. In sleep, we're talking about a state of mind where mental activity is actually turned off and we actually lack consciousness. And in meditation, mental activity is turned off, but we have consciousness or awareness. So by playing around with sleeping and dreaming, which is a state of mind where we have no consciousness but mental activity, we can start to navigate between these different things and we can start to see really what the state of meditation is and we can start to understand the nature of consciousness in the mind.