 We're now going to share with you some catching techniques. And what I mean by catching techniques is that our mind tends to live in binary spaces. So either something is hot or it's cold, it's left or right, it's good or bad. And so our mind, if you really pay attention to it, is always trying to assign one of two values to a particular thing. I like this person, I don't like this person. This restaurant is good or it's not good. This dog is friendly or it's scary. So our mind goes on dividing, dividing, dividing, dividing, dividing. But the truth is that all of those things are things that are applied by the mind. If I look at a tree, is that tree a good tree or a bad tree? Well, there's no such thing as a good tree or a bad tree. They're just trees. If I look at a flower, is the flower beautiful or not beautiful? A flower is just a flower. Even a blade of grass is just a blade of grass. The attributes that our mind applies to things are not really what reality are. They're just things that our mind layers on top of reality. So a lot of getting past our mind and a lot of discovering these moments of meditation happens in catching techniques or what I call in the in-between spaces. So we're going to share with you a couple of examples of ways to catch that in-between space. And they happen all over the place. They happen all throughout your day. We just have to learn how to catch them. The first catching technique that we're going to talk about is catching the moment between inhalation and exhalation. So this works really well for people who are really prone towards breathing techniques and enjoy exploring the breath or working with the breath. But I want you to notice that inhalation is one thing and exhalation is something else. And in-between, there is a moment between inhalation and exhalation. And if you really stop and think about it, you experience thousands of these moments every single day, right? There's a transition between inhalation and exhalation all the time. Literally with every breath you take, there is a moment between inhalation and exhalation. Now the problem is that we're not really aware of it. So I want you guys to try to catch the moment between inhalation and exhalation. And so some of you may think, well, I can breathe in and then breathe out. And that in the middle was the moment between inhalation and exhalation. But that's actually holding your breath. It's not the moment between inhalation and exhalation. Sure, holding your breath comes between inhalation and exhalation. But holding your breath is actually a different thing. Because as you go throughout the day, you're not holding your breath all the time. In fact, most of your day, you're not holding the breath at all. So it may feel like logically that's what we're talking about. But remember, we're not really looking for a logical answer. In fact, the whole point of this technique is to abandon logic. Because meditation is not about logic, it's about experience. So try to catch the moment between inhalation and exhalation. And you may be able to, with a little bit of practice, catch what you think is the moment between inhalation and exhalation. But then I encourage you to zoom in even further. Because some people may find that within that moment between inhalation and exhalation, with greater awareness, there are actually a dozen moments in there as well. And so you zoom in further and zoom in further and zoom in further. And it's been said that the person who can catch the moment between inhalation and exhalation will become enlightened. There are also other catching techniques that we can use. And these are sort of isolating moments in our life. Because in the in-between moments, in the catching moments, is when our mind is actually the most blank. And to understand this really well, we can turn to things like jumping into a pool or taking a cold shower. So if you think about jumping into a pool, the moment that you jump into the pool, not the moment before where you're anxious, you're thinking about, oh my God, the water's going to be cold, the water's going to be cold. But the moment that your body actually enters the water, it's a pure state of meditation. Because in the moment that your body actually enters the water, you're not even capable of thought. That shock from your body entering the water actually causes all of the thoughts in your mind to disappear for a pure and simple moment. Another example of catching this moment of jumping into a pool actually comes from a cold shower. So if you stand under a shower head and you turn on the water, and this isn't stepping into a cold shower, this is actually turning on the water, the second that that cold water hits you, it'll destroy every thought in your mind. In that moment, you'll find one of these in-between moments without thought. And it's a really beautiful example because right before you turn on the shower, your mind will be filled with thoughts, will be filled with anxiety. Oh no, it's going to be hard, it's going to be hard. You have to muster up that courage and see how anxious you are, how much you're kind of getting yourself in gear and getting yourself in the zone. There's a flurry of mental activity. And then the second that the shower turns on, every thought leaves your mind. In the second, for one brief moment before, oh God, I'm so crazy, which is the thought that's going to come next, before you do that, before those thoughts arise in your head, for a moment, for an incredibly long or incredibly short moment, your mind ceases to exist. So if you want to try to understand meditation, if you want to try to understand the no mind state, we can do all of these complicated practices like dharana and dhyana and do these rigorous breathing activities and all that kind of stuff. Those are certainly some ways to find these moments of meditation where you're aware, alive, existing and have no thoughts. But the good news is that these moments are to be found all over our life. They're to be found within each breath. Every time we jump into a body of water and potentially every time we shower. So try to catch these in between moments. Try to live in the in between spaces in life. Try to learn how to live between good and bad, between friendly and unfriendly, between hot and cold. Because the truth is that life is just one thing. Remember all of this other stuff, all of the values that we apply to life are constructions of our mind. They're not really what our mind, they're not really what life is. The big discovery that the yogis made is that all of these mental constructions from our mind are actually the source of our suffering. Because if I can appreciate something for what it is, and my mind doesn't think it's good enough or it's not good enough, then I can truly enjoy it. The secret of bliss is actually to step outside of our mind. And the way that we're going to train ourselves to step outside of mind is to step into the in between places.