 Now we're going to teach you a practice called Ujjayi Pranayam. And Ujjayi is a really important practice because it's one of the few Vishuddha chakra practices that we're going to teach you. So the Vishuddha chakra is the throat chakra and sort of governs your ability to make change in the external world. So when the yogis looked at the qualities of the Vishuddha chakra, what they realized is that the voice is one of the biggest changes that we exert our will on the world, that the pen is mightier than the sword. And our capacity to convince people is what allows us to sort of really create a big change in the world. So the Ujjayi Pranayam is an important practice that sort of strengthens and cleanses your Vishuddha chakra. So this is what in the Twitch community we benevolently call Darth Vader breathing. And so what this means is that if you think about the sound that Darth Vader makes, he goes... If you try to make that noise, what you'll realize is that you're actually contracting your windpipe a little bit. And it's that sound, or that contraction, which actually is what Ujjayi Pranayam is. So I want you to sort of contract your throat. And when you breathe in and out, you're going to be constricting the airflow. And as you constrict that airflow, is that the wind goes through your vocal cords, you'll sort of hear this soft hiss, which is Ujjayi Pranayam. So I'll go ahead and demonstrate. So that's Ujjayi breath. So you can go ahead and practice on your own. And what you'll discover is that as you contract the throat, it'll automatically slow down your breathing, which is one of the biggest goals of meditation. So Ujjayi breath can be done for a period of time. We'll start with sort of three to five minutes, or a certain number of rounds. So you can start with nine rounds and work your way up to 33 rounds, which is an inhalation and an exhalation of Ujjayi Pranayam. Once you've done Ujjayi Pranayam for several weeks, let's say two weeks or so, or three weeks, then you can actually add an additional layer to the practice, which is Kechari Mudra. So Kechari Mudra is another one of these mudras. They're one of these circuits that you sort of connect within your kind of energetic body. But Kechari Mudra is actually done within the mouth and it's done quite simply. What we're going to do is take our tongue and roll it up backwards against the top of our soft palate. So it's almost like you want to point the tip of your tongue towards the back of your throat. So it's going to be kind of curled up, very hard to see. And so what you'll do is sort of feel this curved tongue as it curves up towards the back of your mouth. And when you add Kechari Mudra to Ujjayi Pranayam, that sort of activates the Vishuddha Chakra even more. So why don't you try that for a second. So roll your tongue up against your soft palate. So the bottom of your tongue is touching the top of your mouth and the tip of your tongue is actually pointing towards the back of the throat. And now as you do it for a few seconds, you may discover that your tongue starts to feel tired, which is totally fine. So go ahead and relax your tongue, give it a few moments to rest, and then return to Kechari Mudra. And now let your tongue relax. And now what we'll try to do is actually combine both of these practices. So we'll adopt Kechari Mudra and we'll do five breaths of Ujjayi Pranayam. So curl your tongue up and take five breaths with the epiglottis or your throat constricted. And now relax your tongue. Just in this space for a moment. Feel that residual constriction in your throat. Relax the throat. When you're ready, go ahead and open your eyes. So Ujjayi Pranayam is one of the few practices that we're going to share with you that involves strengthening the Vishuddha chakra. And the Vishuddha chakra will sort of help you start to create a change either in your own life or in the external world.