 Several times throughout the module, we talk about the value of detachment. We talk about how the more attached we are to feelings or thoughts, the more we suffer. And so a lot of people wonder, how do I learn how to let go? How do I learn how to detach? So I'd love to share with you all a practice today that sort of trains your mind in doing this. The first thing to understand is that a lot of times when we're feeling bad, we experience something called thought fusion, which is when our identity becomes part of our mind. And so we may feel like I am pathetic after a breakup or something like that. You may feel like you are unlovable. And in that moment, these thoughts become truths, right? Because I don't say to myself, I might be unlovable. I say to myself, I am unlovable. And so our thoughts become our reality. So there's a really, really simple way to detach from that, is to recognize that there's a gap between what you feel and what you are. So instead of saying, I am unlovable, say my mind is telling me that I am unlovable. Instead of thinking that I am worthless, notice that it is your mind which is telling you that you are worthless or pathetic, right? Because think about this for a second. What does patheticness even mean? If you were to tell me I am pathetic, and I said, show me what patheticness is, what would you say? How could you prove to me that you are pathetic? Because what does it even mean to be pathetic? It's a concept, a construct. It is a product of the mind. I can't biopsy anything. I can't do a blood test. And I can't x-ray you and find any degree of patheticness. You can justify the feeling that you have. You can give me lots of the experiences that you've experienced that make you feel pathetic. But notice that an experience is an experience. Just because you got dumped by someone doesn't mean that you are pathetic. The reality of the situation is that you just got dumped. And so what the mind does in those moments is tell you that its thoughts are your reality. And the more that you begin to realize that these are all constructions of the mind, that my mind tells me all kinds of things. Sometimes it tells me that I'm the best person in the world. Sometimes it tells me I'm the worst person in the world. Sometimes it thinks about unicorns. Sometimes it thinks about centaurs. Sometimes it thinks about flying to the moon. But the mind thinks about all kinds of things. It doesn't make them true. So how do you start to get a handle on that? Replace the phrasing in your mind and catch yourself. Pay attention to yourself in that moment. Notice that when you think, I am pathetic, look, look into your mind and ask yourself, where does this feeling come from? I'm telling this to myself as if it is true. Where is the foundation of this? And dig into it. Because the further that you dig into it, the more you'll see that it's kind of like a mirage. It looks like there's water far away. And the closer that you get to it, the more the water disappears. And now it's even further away. So as you investigate yourself, you'll discover that there is no such thing as patheticness. And so how do you train yourself to do that? Start by replacing I am dot dot dot with my mind tells me dot dot dot. And notice that it is indeed your mind telling you. And the more that you do this practice, the more that you notice that your mind is telling thoughts, not truths. The more detachment you'll gain, the more of a ragga you will attain and the freer you'll be. Smile. If you guys want to take your masks off, that's OK for a second. I can't touch my face. Don't touch Daddy's face. Don't touch your face. Alright, come on everyone, smile. Yay!