 Next up, I'd like to talk about permissive influences on motivation. And this is an important topic because most of the time when we think about motivation, we think about it as an internal thing. Even the term motivation sort of implies that it's governed within. So we'll say things like, I'm not motivated, or I need to find motivation, or I wish I was more motivated. And so most of the solutions and most of the problem solving around motivation have to do with internal work. But the truth of the matter is that a lot of our motivation is heavily influenced by our environment. And what I'd like to dig into today is this concept of a permissive influence. So something that's permissive is something that allows or facilitates something else to act. This is something that we understand very well in medicine and physiology. So some hormones will have permissive effects on other hormones. And what that sort of means is that hormone A sets things up for hormone B to actually function properly. A good example of this comes from female reproductive hormones and the relationship between estrogen and progesterone. So estrogen is one of the two major reproductive female hormones. And what estrogen actually does is creates receptors on cells for progesterone to attach to. Without estrogen, the signal of progesterone cannot be received. And so this gets kind of complicated. But if you look at things like the female menstrual cycle, there's a very subtle relationship and sort of balance between the actions of estrogen and progesterone. The key takeaway, though, is that progesterone can't really act properly unless estrogen is in the picture. It's not just female reproductive hormones, though. But we can also look at things like stress hormones, which affect all human beings. So we have two stress hormones. We have a lot of different stress hormones. But two that we're going to talk about right now are cortisol and adrenaline. So cortisol is a long-term stress hormone that activates a lot of genes. So what cortisol sort of does is create cellular machinery that sort of allow us to deal with stress over a long-term period. And what cortisol actually does is creates adrenaline receptors. So when we're in a prolonged state of stress, our body becomes more sensitive to adrenaline. And so this is another example of hormone A being permissive in terms of its action on hormone B. Our body becomes more sensitive to adrenaline in the presence of cortisol. Another example of this is when people are sort of looking at things like the culinary They'll sort of say that salt brings out other flavors. So you can add a lot of different seasoning to a particular amount of food. But as long as the salt level is absent or too low, those other flavors aren't really present. And so sometimes if you want to make your food tastier, it's not about adding additional seasoning. It's about bringing the salt level up so that the other flavors are able to shine. So this concept of permissive influences also applies to things like motivation. And in fact, I think it's one of the most underappreciated aspects of motivation, because there are certain circumstances in which our motivation can actually shine forth and other circumstances where our motivation is kind of restricted. So we're going to go over four permissive influences. We're going to look at social influences, temporal influences, environmental influences, and cognitive influences. So we'll start with social influences. When we think about our friend group, we can like them a lot. We can share a lot of interests. We can have a really good time with them. But think a little bit more critically about when you spend time with your friends, do they move you in the direction that you want to go in? What effect do they have on your motivation to become the person that you want to be? Because a lot of times our friends actually, even though we love them and even though we enjoy spending time with them, don't actually support us to grow into who we want to become. A lot of our friends, paradoxically, actually kind of keep us stuck. They'll sort of continue to engage in the same sorts of things. They may be relatively content in life. So we need to be a little bit careful about what kinds of thoughts and feelings they evoke in us. Another example of a social influence that could be permissive for our motivation is family. This is where, unfortunately, sometimes family doesn't move us in the right direction as well. Sometimes, depending on what culture you're from or what your family dynamic is, family will actually try to hold you back. Family members may, instead of encouraging you to move in the right direction or encouraging you to become your best self, will actually encourage you to follow their path or think that you should do what they want you to do. Or in the worst case scenarios, can actually be somewhat toxic. I've worked with, unfortunately, far too many people whose families actually deplete their motivation through either burdening them with different kinds of tasks or really sort of almost sabotaging efforts. A good example of this is actually in terms of trying to eat healthier. So if you grew up in a family that doesn't sort of have a very healthy diet and you start to try eating healthy, what we'll actually see is family members that will sort of make fun of you or deride you or family members that themselves feel kind of judged by your food choices. And if they start to feel judged by your food choices, they can lash out or sometimes even sabotage the attempts that you're making to eat healthier. So we need to be really careful about surrounding ourselves, at least in some way, with social influences that help us think in the right way, cultivate the right kind of ambition and help us move forward in life. This doesn't mean discard your friends or discard your family. And you can love your family. They can be kind of supportive. You can enjoy spending time with your friends. But I want you all to be a little bit critical about thinking, okay, when I spend time with this group of people, if I spend time this weekend with my friends, how do I feel on Monday morning? What am I prepared to do on Monday morning? If I spend a month with this kind of person, how does it motivate me? How does it stimulate me to act? Another really important social influence is also a romantic relationship. So sometimes I've worked with people who will enter into a relationship, and that relationship will essentially put all of their goals on hold for a period of six months or one year. And once they get out of that relationship, they rediscover who they are and can start moving in the direction that they want to. So once again, the key thing here is not necessarily that family or friends can be good or bad or romantic relationships can be good or bad, but for you to think critically about if I spend time with this person, what does it cultivate in terms of my motivation? And once you start to realize that, you may realize that there are people in your life who you may not share quite as many interests with, who you may not enjoy spending time with, but actually activate the right kind of circuits in your mind to make you more motivated. In addition to social influences, we can also look at temporal influences. So you may find that there are certain times of the day or certain days of the week or even certain seasons that will sort of cultivate the right kind of attitude and help you move forward. So I, for example, am sort of like an early riser. And when I work early in the morning, I tend to be very, very productive. This is something that I sort of discovered during medical school that a lot of my friends during medical school, a lot of my classmates, since it's medical school and there's so much to learn, they would kind of slog through studying all day, every day. They'd wake up in the morning, drink a double shot of espresso, go to class, be in class for six hours, and then hit the library immediately afterward and stay in the library until it closed at 11 p.m. And then rinse and repeat the next day. What I sort of discovered for myself is that I couldn't do that. I didn't have the stamina to do that. But what I really found is that I could never study sort of after I was done with class. And instead, the first hours of the morning when my mind is completely fresh and I'm completely rested, I could study very, very efficiently. We sort of know from the science of circadian rhythm that human beings have a natural biological clock. And during certain parts of the day, we're sort of naturally more active, and other parts of the day, we're sort of more cognitively calmed down. So generally speaking, we're the most active at dawn and dusk. And even in the midday when it's very hot outside, we sort of become a little bit sluggish. Now that kind of circadian rhythm is generally true of mammals, but there's a lot of individual variability. Some people are night owls, some people are morning larks. And so it kind of depends on what's the right temporal influence that facilitates your motivation. That's something that you're going to have to look into a little bit individually. So the next thing to think a little bit about are environmental influences on motivation. So this is something else that I sort of individually kind of grappled with and figured out. So when I was in medical school, what I sort of figured out is that I had one laptop and I would get distracted on my laptop. The one thing that I found that really helped is I had two desks that were right next to each other. And what I would literally do is unplug my laptop from one desk, roll over to the other desk and plug it in over there. And that was my work desk where I kept my textbooks, I kept my notebooks, I kept all of my notes from class. And when I was kind of sitting there, my mind would kind of get anchored in that desk that this is the working desk. And when I was done working for the day, I would unplug my laptop, slide on over to my other desk, plug it in there, and then that's where I was allowed to game. And it was also kind of interesting because there were other subtle environmental influences. Like I left my mouse and my mouse pad on my play desk. And when I was using my work desk, I would use a track pad that was built into the laptop. So it was almost facilitated me to not be able to play games when I was sitting at my working desk. So that's something else that you should think about as well. What is the right environment that makes you feel like working? One of the things that I know that people will sort of sometimes fetishize is the workspaces of famous authors and other people like politicians and heads of state. And we'll sort of recognize that people who are able to accomplish very profound cognitive tasks, whether it's the creation of art and it's like a studio space or it's a study room or it's kind of the study where someone writes great speeches. We sort of recognize that environment is very, very influential at facilitating the right state of mind. We also see this in terms of religious groups or churches or I went and studied at ashrams in India and South Korea and Japan where there are certain spaces that cultivate a sort of very meditative atmosphere. And when you go to that space, you can almost feel the energy of it. So in terms of your motivation, it's not all internal. You should also think a little bit about where do I do my best work? When do I do my best work? And as you start to recognize those things, start to shape your environment or shape your circumstances so that you can work in the right environment. The last permissive influence we're going to look at are cognitive influences. And I know that sounds kind of weird because how can you have a cognitive influence? But I'll just share something else that I sort of discovered, which is that I can write in the first part of the day. And even if I'm sort of exhausted by 2 p.m., 3 p.m. from a day of writing, I can always see patients afterward. So I can have a patient come into my office at 4 p.m. and the fact that I'm sitting with another human being who I care about, who I'm interested in, something about that makes me able to do that no matter what time of the day it is. The interesting thing is after I sit with a human being and after we're doing some kind of deep work together, some kind of psychotherapeutic work or working on trauma or working on things that they struggle with, afterward, whether it's one appointment or four appointments, I'm equally exhausted. I'm sort of equally spent. And I can't start writing at like 6 p.m. every day. This is kind of interesting because you'll see this clinically for physicians as a whole. So physicians will work 24-hour calls. And so what that means is I'm literally working for 24 hours, but I can't finish a 24-hour call and then do some kind of creative work. I can do creative work before the call, but something about the nature of the work when you're on call keeps you stimulated, keeps you motivated enough. So one thing that you should think a little bit about is what are the cognitive influences that are permissive for your motivation? Is there something that you can do sort of first thing in the morning or are there some kinds of activities that you can engage in which will sort of stimulate your cognition in the right way? So these are the four permissive influences which I really want you all to consider. If you're struggling with your own motivation and if you're struggling with your own productivity, it's not just all in here, right? So one of the key things that we've emphasized over the course of this segment of the guide, this module, is that our sensory inputs are very important for shaping our cognition. And we can kind of think about if we follow that principle down towards the end, we can start to see that there are influences based on family, friends, what time of day, where we work, and also what kinds of activities facilitate the sort of best working mind. The other thing that we need to kind of touch on, which is sort of important, is that we can have permissive influences for bad things as well. We're kind of thinking about influences that facilitate motivation, but there are also influences that facilitate negative cognitive things like procrastination. And this is something that I want you all to be super careful about and sort of ties into Friends. Not only is it that there are some people that will inspire us to create, to work, to act, there are also people who will actually explicitly sabotage our efforts. So this is where, for example, if I have a group of friends that we all like to get high together, and I hang out with those friends, if I hang out with them, I'm going to get high. And if I get high, that's going to negatively impact my productivity. So we also want to be a little bit careful about what are the permissive influences for something like procrastination? What are the things that I can do that will make it easier for me to procrastinate? Because that's what a permissive influence is. I want you all to think about permissivity as something that makes it easier to do something else. So what are the things in my life that make it easier for me to procrastinate, make it easier for me to be lazy on a particular day? So that could be something like a substance, it could be a particular group of people, or it could be a particular cognitive influence. And I don't know about you all, but I don't feel motivated to do work after I've been gaming for six hours. Gaming is a cognitive influence that sort of really makes it hard for me to be motivated. So in terms of figuring out how to make it easy for yourself to be motivated, how can you open the floodgates to your own motivation? There are a lot of environmental factors to consider. There are a lot of permissive influences to consider. The four major ones that we tend to think about are social influences, temporal influences, environmental influences, and cognitive influences. But it doesn't quite stop there. You also need to think about what are the parts of your life, what are the social aspects of your life, what are the environmental aspects of your life, what are the cognitive aspects of your life that actually sabotage your motivation or actually facilitate things like procrastination? So as you discover all of these different factors, that'll give you the insight to craft your life, to set yourself up for success.