 So back when I was struggling to like figure out what to do with my life, one of the pieces of advice that I got from people was get organized. The problem here is that you're not organized. And that to me always felt kind of like BS because I was sort of thinking about it a little bit and I was like, okay, I've got two choices. I can actually do stuff or I can get organized to do stuff. And if you really think about it, getting organized is not actually doing it, right? It's like spending a lot of time and effort in not doing it. And I don't even have enough time and effort to actually do the thing that I need to be doing. So if I have like 10 tasks to do, I don't understand how it actually helps me to spend half an hour writing down everything that I have to do. At the end of that half hour, I haven't done any of them, right? But I could spend that half hour actually doing something or I could spend that time getting organized. And I also sort of discovered another interesting aspect here, which is that sometimes all we do is we get organized and we get organized and we get organized. So I would do things like I'd make really long to-do lists and then I'd never do them, right? We can spend a lot of time planning to do something, organizing everything, cleaning everything, getting everything in order. Okay, I'm going to spend a lot of time doing research about what kind of instrument I need to learn and what kind of equipment that I need and I'm going to make a list of stuff that I'm going to order online and then I'm never going to order it. And hopefully you don't order it because the other option is that you order it, then it just sits in the corner of your room and you never actually end up using it. So this is kind of tricky because I was like sitting there kind of thinking about organization, people would give me this advice, get organized, get organized, get organized. And in some part of my mind, I was like, that's actually a waste of my time. I would rather just do the thing than get organized about doing the thing. And this is really important to understand because the reason that we don't really understand why organization is important is because no one ever explains it to us. So no one ever really teaches us what organization actually does for our brain. And this is really important, especially for people who are kind of on the ADHD spectrum because there are studies that show that actually getting organized and creating some kind of external structure leads to very positive outcomes with ADHD. There are head-to-head studies done on kids who are taught organizational skills and kids who are medicated with controlled substances like stimulants, like they're given things like Adderall and amphetamines. And what these studies actually show is teaching the child organizational skills yields the same benefit and actually that benefit persists longer than kids who are actually given medications. And so how does that work? What do organizational skills actually do for us? Because remember, the tricky thing there is that we can do something or we can get organized about doing something. So we're going to dive into a little bit of neuroscience to understand how our mind works, what the role of executive function is and how organization actually helps us perform better. So the first thing to understand about the mind is that it only has a limited amount of capacity to do stuff. So we have this part of our brain called the frontal lobes and the frontal lobes, if you remember from the neuroscience section, govern executive function. An executive function is the ability to plan and execute tasks. So this is why some things can feel very overwhelming because our brain can't plan out all the steps. So a good example of something like this is finding a job or becoming financially independent. How do you become financially independent? How do you find a job? A job is not something you find. You don't go out walking through the woods with a metal detector, swiveling back and forth, oh, look, I found a job here, done, easy, right? We talk about job as if it's like a simple thing. It's like you can find a rock. You can find a seashell. You can find trash. You maybe even can find treasure, but you can't find a job. They're not lying around. So the process of finding a job is actually a series of different tasks. I've got to update my resume. I have to reach out to people. I have to go network. I have to apply for jobs. I have to write cover letters. I have to edit cover letters. I have to get friends to read my cover letters and give me feedback. I have to go interview. I have to prepare for the interview. What are the different ways I can prepare to interview? I go to the interview. I have to send a follow up, thank you, email, or thank you note, or whatever. Now I have to look at offers. I have to talk to my attorney. I have to consult with my mentors. Then I accept an offer. So you get one offer, and then is that the one that you accept, or do you wait for the other ones? Do you keep looking? When have you found a job? It's really complicated. And our frontal lobes are left with the burden of answering all of those questions all at once. And then we wonder, why is it hard for me to find a job? The task that you're giving your brain is so big and actually considers all those steps. And if you've been thinking about finding a job and it's been hard for you, part of the reason it's been hard is because that's so overwhelming. You've thought about each of those things because everyone talks about networking. Should I be networking more? Everyone talks about posting things on LinkedIn and being more on LinkedIn, like am I on LinkedIn enough? How do you know when you posted enough stuff? How do you know when you've been on LinkedIn enough? There's so much crap that our brain tries to hold. And the funny thing is that this is a principle that you can even see, like I recognize this principle with my two-year-old. So one day we were walking down the beach and she was collecting shells. Simple thing, right? She's a two-year-old kid. She's walking down the beach. What do two-year-olds on the beach do? They pick up shells. And so she's picking up a shell and she holds it, right? She walks down, picks up the next one, picks up the next one, picks up the next one. And then something tricky happens. She reaches this critical point where each time she reaches to pick up a shell, she drops another one or drops two or drops three. And then she gets really, really frustrated because she's only got two hands. And this is when she learns one of the worst lessons that life teaches us, which is why we've only got two hands. And if we're using them to hold something, we can't do something else with them, that our capacity fundamentally is limited in this world. And it's incredibly frustrating for her because she wants to use her hands to pick up shells and she wants to use her hands to hold shells. So what do we do? It's overwhelming. And our brain is exactly the same way. So I want you all to think about this for a second. How does your brain remember to do stuff? Oh, yeah, I have to do laundry. Oh, I need to go pick up milk. Oh, yeah, I need to like respond to that email. I need to write that thank you card. How on earth does the brain remember stuff? The only way it can remember stuff is if it keeps track of it. Each of those tasks that your brain is keeping track of is something that it's holding in its hands. And the more stuff that it holds in its hands, the less space that you have to pick things up. And then we end up getting into the situation just like my two-year-old, where every time we do something, we end up screwing something else up. Every time I actually take one step forward towards the job search, I forget to do something else. So what is the point of organization? The point of organization is to actually offload all of that stuff in our brain. So as it turns out with the two-year-old, the answer is simple enough, right? It's like, oh, hey, we have a bag that has water in it. Daddy's carrying a backpack. Why don't you put the shells in the backpack? Then you have your hands free and you can pick up whatever you need to. That's essentially what organization is for the brain. So what we want to do is create a system where we can offload things from our brain. We can sort of store them in a particular place, go to them when we need to, and that then frees up our brain to focus fully on the task at hand. When I make a list of everything that I need to do to find a job and I sit down with number one, which is update my LinkedIn profile, my brain can actually let go of everything else. And then I can focus fully on that one task because I know that somewhere else I don't need to remember all the other stuff. And so if we think about times in our life when we're overwhelmed, how does organization work? Well, it works like literally in our brain by taking the burden off of our frontal lobes. And our frontal lobes, by the way, do other things too. Like they overcome impulses. They protect us against distractions. They direct our attention. So if you really think about what are all the tasks the frontal lobes have, they have a lot of stuff that they have to do. Our frontal lobes protect us against distraction. And if your frontal lobes are keeping track of 15 things that you need to do for your job, they won't have the energy to protect you from distraction. And so now we begin to see how literally a child with ADHD who gets distracted very easily does better at school when they make a to do list. Because it seems like those two things are not related. How does a to do list have anything to do with my ability to focus on a textbook for 15 minutes? The two seem completely unrelated. And the tasks may be, but the thing that's related is the brain. The brain is doing both. And so this is why organization is important. There's another really important aspect of organization, which has to do with distraction. So the other problem with our brain is when we're holding a bunch of stuff and we get distracted, when we come back to the task, it's hard for our brain to know exactly where to pick up where we left off. We can't really do that. So if we're juggling a bunch of tasks in our head and we get distracted in some way and we come back to it, our brain sort of has to go through the whole process again. Our frontal lobes have to map everything out again and sort of start us at the beginning and then kind of move through things. I know it sounds kind of weird, but our brain is sort of like, it just can't pick up where we left off. It's just not the way that the brain works. This is one of the advantages of something like a to do list. So if I check things off in my to do list, I don't have to remember where I was in my to do list. And the reason for that is because as I look at the to do list, I see which boxes are checked, I see which boxes aren't. But if you think about it, how does the brain know what's been checked and what hasn't? It kind of doesn't. And this is another thing that's really, really important for ADHD because what I see with my patients who I work with who have ADHD is that they'll make some progress in a task. They'll get 30% done, they'll get 40% done. And then since their mind is already vulnerable to distraction, if they get distracted when they come back to it, they don't just pick up exactly where they left off. They don't pick up with the same amount of steam, the same amount of energy and just keep going. What they actually have to do is sort of start back at the beginning and orient themselves again. And you may have noticed this even if you don't have ADHD. If you start the process of some kind of task and you come back a week later, what you have to do is you have to kind of like start over from the beginning. You have to figure out, okay, what have I done? What have I not done? Okay, oh yeah, I did that kind of research, but I didn't do that. I did do this. And so the other really important thing about organization is that it's almost a protective mechanism against distraction. So if we are prone to distraction, if the ADHD brain is prone to distraction, what that sort of means is that every time we get distracted, we have to start over from scratch. Whereas if we have an organizational system, that organizational system protects us from the distraction. Not necessarily the distraction itself, but what it really protects us from is kind of reinventing the wheel, right? So we can actually pick up where we left off. So these are the first two things to understand about organization and why they're actually important. And they actually go to the core of neuroscience, which is first of all, that our executive frontal lobes have to manage a lot of stuff. They have to govern impulse control. They plan and execute tasks. They do all kinds of things like protect us against distractions, direct our attention. And the more stuff that our frontal lobes have to do, the more overwhelmed we get and the harder it is to actually do anything. The second thing to keep in mind is that unfortunately, as we are all getting more ADHD and as some of us actually have clinical ADHD, if we get distracted by something and we're storing everything in our mind, when we go back to the task, we have to sort of start over from the beginning. So it's a very inefficient process. This is why it takes people who have ADHD so many weeks or days or hours to do even the simplest of tasks. And the problem is that they have to start over from the beginning each time they get distracted. And since their mind is more prone to distraction, it sort of really results in being incredibly inefficient. So that's a little bit about why organization is important. But before we get into that, how we organize things, we have to take a moment to really think about why you need to get organized. So we've explained a little bit about how organization is helpful from a neuroscientific perspective. But if you really want to succeed in organizing yourself and getting the benefits of these systems, you really have to think a little bit about why you need to get organized. And the reason that this is important is because as you develop an organizational system, it's actually going to be less efficient for the first part of time that you use it. So right now, I already have an automatic sort of intrinsic system of doing things. My brain is sort of on autopilot. And at the very beginning, when I develop an organizational system, I have to put more energy into building the system before I get used to it. So any time we adopt an organizational system, it actually costs us more than it benefits us. And this is a really important pitfall that people fall into is we say to ourselves, oh, I need to get organized. But the second I start getting organized, what I realize is I can actually get more done by skipping the organizational step, because the organizational step really doesn't help me. A good example of this is when I make a to-do list, the first time I make a to-do list, my brain doesn't empty everything from its mind. I actually still have the mental to-do list in my head. And so I'm not really ready to unburden myself mentally from that. And the reason for that is because the brain doesn't know that it can trust the to-do list. Because when you're starting to make to-do lists, where do you put the to-do list? Where do you keep track of the to-do list? Let's say I make a grocery list. And then I forget it on the table. And then I go to the grocery store. My mind still remembers everything from the grocery list. I don't actually need the list. So at the very beginning, when we're implementing an organizational system, the first pitfall you need to understand is that implementing a system is going to cost you more than it benefits you. How do we overcome that? By remembering why we need to get organized in the first place. So in order to overcome that efficiency, we really need to focus in on why do we need to get organized in the first place? What is the end goal that we're really shooting for? And a good way to kind of think about that is even something as simple as why are you watching this video? Why did you watch this guide to begin with? What were you hoping to gain by watching this guide, by watching this video? And as you think about those kinds of goals, that's what I want you to keep in mind as you start implementing an organizational system. Because what you're going to do is it's going to be inefficient. But I want you to do is go back to the idea of, OK, if I implement the system, it'll help me get to that goal. And thus far, I haven't been able to get to that goal. So even though it's going to be a bumpy road at the beginning if I develop an organizational system, I need to do it for the sake of this thing. So I want you to pause for a second and think a little bit about why we're developing an organizational system to begin with. Once you've done that, now what we kind of want to get into is what are the components of a good organizational system? So if we take the case of clinical ADHD, there are two major things that we want to avoid or protect against in terms of a patient who has ADHD. And that is lateness and forgetfulness. So the two things that our organizational system should account for is making sure that we do everything that we need to do and we also do it on time. So the system that we're going to develop is going to have a couple of different components. And this is where there isn't a perfect system for all people. Make sure that each and every one of us has our own unique cognitive fingerprint. So the organizational system that we need to develop actually has to account for our unique set of what we're good at, what we're not good at, where we need support, where we don't need support. But what we'll do is go over the key kind of pieces of a system and then you can kind of figure out how to implement those sort of on your own. So the first thing that we need to do is prioritize. So people with ADHD really struggle with prioritization. And this is something that we're seeing sort of globally across everyone, is that as we are juggling more things, as deadlines become quicker, as we have to manage more things, it's not just working anymore, right? It's working and posting and managing your social media and building your personal brand and keeping your portfolio up to date and sort of making sure that we network. There's like so many things that we have to do now. So one of the things is the more things that we try to juggle, the more overwhelmed we get. So a key skill that we need to learn is prioritization. So what I would sort of recommend is that you kind of write down everything that you need to do. And here's just one example. So make a list of everything that you need to do. And then what we want to do is sort of prioritize based on what stuff has to be done today, what stuff has to be done soon, and what stuff would be nice to do at some point. And I know that that's kind of like a rough sort of thing. It's not like one day is seven days, two days, five days. It's just sort of like vaguely like, okay, what's the crap I need to get done today? What's the crap I need to get done this week or like at some point soon? And then what's the stuff that it would be really nice if I did, but like don't necessarily need to do? And so whatever your system is, it's kind of up to you in terms of some people will like to prioritize things in terms of like numbers. So people will do like, okay, these things are priority one, these things are priority two, these things are priority three. So what some people will do is like literally rank things from one to X, X being the number of things on your list. So what's the first thing we need to do? Second thing we need to do? Third thing we need to do from a priority perspective. These are all different systems. The key thing is that the shared component of all of these systems is that you are not forcing your frontal lobes to think about what needs to be done and hold that priority list in your mind. What you want to do is outsource it, stick it on a piece of paper and organize it for your brain so that if you get distracted, all you have to do is look at the list and everything is laid out and you can act immediately. So prioritization is piece number one. Piece number two is kind of the temporal component. So we need to think about the when. And I know that even in terms of priorities, I was sort of adding a temporal component there, but this is where we want to look at something like a calendar, right? So remember that what we want to prevent is lateness and forgetfulness. So this is where a tool like a calendar helps us understand when we're going to be doing what. And the cool thing about that is once we kind of outsource things to our calendar, once we devote particular time in our day to a particular task, then we don't have to worry about when that task is going to get done. And that is liberating. When I know something is going to get taken care of, I don't have to worry about it anymore. When I don't have to worry about that thing, then it becomes so much easier to focus on the thing that I'm working on right now. So this is something that we sort of learn so instinctively in some professions. So for example, as a physician, I don't have to worry about when I'm going to take care of my patients. Why is that? Because they have appointments scheduled. So when someone walks in the door, that's when I worry about taking care of them. This is what I got to do for this person. And then they leave and that's sort of, okay, I did what I need to do. If I need to do some kind of follow-up thing like send in a prescription or something like that, I'll sort of set that in my to-do list for the day. But generally speaking, some physicians have patient panels that are hundreds of patients or even like over a thousand patients. How on earth is a doctor supposed to keep in their head all of the things that they need to worry about for each of their patients? They don't. It's impossible. The way that we manage that is we just make appointments, right? Okay, you need to do a follow-up in three months. Let's make the appointment. And so in that moment, I'm already determining when do I need to think about this person next? When do I need to check up on this person next? That needs to happen in three months. And so you can use a calendar to account for sort of the temporal dimension so that you can kind of like slot particular tasks into particular times. So that's sort of the second dimension of organization that we need to think a little bit about. The next thing that we're going to learn in terms of organization is something called operationalizing a problem. So this is where the goal of the frontal lobes is to take an abstract task and break it up into small pieces. So this is where we use the example earlier today about finding a job which actually involves a bunch of different steps. In the neuroscience lecture, we've also talked about this example of cleaning your room, right? So for some of us, cleaning our room is something that we can do, but that's something you kind of like your frontal lobes have to develop to be able to do that. So if you tell a two-year-old to clean their room, their brain literally is not mature enough to take that abstract task and break it apart into its individual components. A two-year-old though, if you tell the two-year-old, put your toys away in the toy box, they know how to do that piece. If you tell them, organize the books on the bookshelf, they know how to do that piece. They know, okay, put the pens in the pen box, they know how to do that piece. As we become six or seven, we can tell a seven-year-old, clean your room, and they can sort of take that abstract task, break it apart into its components, and execute on all of those. As we get older, we have more abstract tasks like finding a job, and then even more abstract tasks like building a fulfilling life, right? What are the steps with that? Those are things that even 30-year-olds, 35-year-olds will struggle with. The key thing is that if we're struggling with those kinds of things, we can actually use an organizational system to support us. We don't have to hold it all in our head. We can actually sit down and break those pieces apart, break down the task into its individual components, and that process is called operationalizing. The cool thing about operationalizing is it makes things easier to execute on. Finding a job is not something I can do today, but what I can do today is update my resume. What I can do today is read five other resumes to figure out how I want to structure my own. What I can do today is find three jobs that I want to apply to. What I can do today is apply to those three jobs. The purpose of operationalizing is to break a big task into bite-sized chunks. Once they're bite-sized, our brain can actually handle them better, will feel less overwhelmed, and they're easier to execute on. A lot of people will ask, okay, how exactly do I operationalize? That's where there's one simple example. I'll give you an exercise that I use with people that really operationalizes down to a very, very small part, but really sort of helps us generate completable tasks. It's almost like a thought exercise. Imagine for a moment that you're paralyzed from the neck down. You can't move your hands, you can't move your legs, you can't move a muscle in your body, but you retain full mental faculties and you can speak. Imagine that you have someone who works for you, who's kind of like a personal assistant, and they will complete any task you tell them to do. Imagine that this person, you have to instruct this person in the steps to complete your task. If this person, you can't find the job yourself, but you can tell them to do everything that you need to. That's where you're going to start with very, very small things. Sit down at my computer, log into the computer, open up my email, first look at all the emails that we have for today. Did we get any responses from jobs that we applied to? Since we got two responses, we're going to take care of those first. Next thing I want you to do is log into LinkedIn. Log into LinkedIn, see if anyone responded to us on LinkedIn. Check our notifications on LinkedIn. Now that we're done with that, now what I want you to do is open up this file folder and open up this resume file. Take a look at that resume file. Now we're going to look at these five resume files. Show me these five resume files. I'm going to just look at them. I like this one, I like this one, I don't like these three. What you can almost do is really break it down using this thought exercise into individual tiny little tasks. What I would actually encourage you to do is actually write those tasks down. First thing that we're going to do today is sit down at our computer chair. Next thing we're going to do is open up our email and then you're going to check those off. This is the part where you've got to be careful because you may say, that's a waste of time. I don't need to write down, sit down on a chair. I know how to do that. You can sort of adjust it a little bit if you need to, but this is where if you really want to learn how to operationalize, you may not need all of those steps, but at the least you'll get a sense of, okay, how do I need to break this task apart? Remember that a part of this at the very beginning is going to be less efficient. That's what we sort of talked about in terms of the pitfalls. When you learn to operationalize, it may cost you a little bit of efficiency until you learn the system. The good news is that over time you will become more efficient and you'll complete more tasks. The next thing that we have to sort of touch on is actually whether we want to use an organizational system that's electronic or on paper. Now this is becoming increasingly challenging because we have such good electronic tools. So if you think about things like calendar apps versus physical calendars, calendar apps may be able to notify you. They may be able to remind you. They may be able to have scheduled invitations that you send to other people for online meetings and stuff like that. So electronic organizational systems have a lot of functions that we may not have if we use something as simple as pen and paper. The downside is that electronic organizational systems require the use of electronic devices. And once we start using electronic devices, we open ourselves up to all kinds of problems because now that I'm on my calendar app, TikTok gets to send me a notification. Reddit gets to send me a notification. I get to get texts from my friends. My sort of my friend group, now I'm getting messages on Discord, I'm getting this kind of notification and check this out. So we sort of sometimes will pay a price for using an electronic app. So I'm not sort of saying that electronic apps should be used or shouldn't be used or that paper is better or worse. I personally use a combination of both. And that's where you're going to have to figure out your personal style. So for things like to-do lists, I find pen and paper to be very, very, very good. But for things like calendars and appointment reminders and notifications and things like that, I find electronic devices to be really good. Especially if you're someone who is prone to forgetfulness like I am, that's where I store everything in my calendar. And I really appreciate getting a notification 10 minutes ahead of time, because sometimes I will forget that I had to do something, which is sort of exactly the point of developing an organizational system, because I'm working so fully on task A that I even forget that I have a meeting that's task B. So I love it when I get that notification. Oh, yeah, I have that meeting. So then like, but it's awesome because for the last hour, I wasn't thinking about, oh, I have the meeting, I have the meeting, I have a meeting, don't forget the meeting, don't forget the meeting. I can let go of that thought and fully focus on one thing at a time. So in terms of whether you should use electronic or pen and paper or some kind of physical system, I encourage you to experiment with both. And the key thing about the experimentation is to really collect a lot of data. So when I use a calendar app, how often do I get distracted? When I use a calendar app, does it really help me? When I use a calendar app, do I really use all these features and functionalities? Or instead, maybe I need a very simple calendar. I don't actually need to use all this stuff. So it's going to require a lot of sort of personal experimentation to figure out what works for you. But just remember that with the electronic piece, an app may have a bunch of features, but you may not need those features. And furthermore, it may require device usage that sort of opens you up to distraction. There's one more component of an organizational system, which I haven't really seen included in research that I've done, which is what I call the knuckleheaded stuff. I don't know how else to say this, but sometimes I've got important work that I'm doing. And there are some small, stupid tasks that just have to get done. And it's almost like in the grand scheme of things, the knuckleheaded stuff is not actually important. It's probably not that big of a deal if I even don't do it. It doesn't really need to be done right this second. You have to have an organizational system that accounts for the knuckleheaded stuff. This is the kind of stuff like maybe paying bills or you don't actually have to pay the bill today. You'll incur a late fee, which is not good. But you've got this really big important project at work. And so it can be really, really distracting to have this stupid crap that you have to take care of that still needs to be taken care of but never feels quite as important as the big stuff that you really need to focus on. So any kind of organizational system that you need to put in place has to account for the knuckleheaded stuff. So these are the small tasks that you need to take care of like, oh, I need to put toilet paper in the downstairs bathroom, which at the end of the day is not the end of the world. Finding a job is more important than the toilet paper. But at the same time, you don't want to be stuck in the situation where I'm using the downstairs bathroom and I'm doing a number two and I'm out of toilet paper. You don't want to end up in that situation. So you need some kind of organizational system that takes care of the knuckleheaded stuff. A good example of this is I noticed that when I was in residency, my mentors and other senior people had something called admin time. And I was really confused about what admin time is. And they would say like, yeah, admin time is the time that I do things like check my email. I was like super confused because I'm checking email all day. They're also clearly checking email all day because they're responding to it all day. So I sort of thought like, oh, admin time is a time that you're not seeing patients. And they're like, yeah, it's a time that I'm just doing administrative work. I'm filling out things that I need to do. I'm doing surveys and this kind of crap. And I'm like, oh, that's all the unimportant crap. So I was super clever. And what did I do? I blocked three hours of admin time Friday at 2 PM. And so I had lunch and peaced out, right? Because who needs admin time? It's just an easy way to take a half day off. Boy was that a catastrophic mistake. Because what I realized over time is admin time is the time that they take care of all the knuckleheaded stuff. And so what I was essentially doing is I was going throughout the week with all these random little things. And then I get notifications. Then I get an email from my program director. Hey, you didn't fill out your survey. And it's like, oh, crap. I have to fill out the survey, right? Because it's like this little thing that you have to do, which no one is going to read, but it has to be done so that a box gets checked and then everyone else is happy about it. And so admin time became actually a really important part of my day. And now I schedule my own admin time. There are a couple of other rules that people will sometimes use for knuckleheaded stuff. One piece of advice that I actually got from the same program director who explained admin time to me is that if it takes less than two minutes, do it now. So any task, it's not worth the space in your mind to keep track of something that takes like less than a minute to do, which is exactly what's going to happen if you don't do it now. The key thing here is that you need a system that's going to account for all the knuckleheaded stuff. You need some way to slot time into your day or your week where you take care of all the little tasks that your mind is holding on to that can interfere with the bigger tasks. And one more thing to consider is that when you're implementing an organizational system, prepare to feel exhausted. Because while you're implementing the system, your brain is actually having to learn a new thing. So instead of operating on autopilot of like juggling a thousand things on your head, which is really inefficient, it's still something that's easy for your brain. It's something that your brain has learned how to do. So anytime you implement an organizational system, you're going to actually feel more fatigued because even if you're sort of thinking about like, let's take the example of the grocery list. So my mind is used to storing things in my head for what I need from the grocery store. When I make a grocery list, now what my mind needs to remember is everything that I need to get from the store as well as remembering to bring the list. So at the very beginning, an organizational system is going to cost us more than it benefits us. And that can lead to some amount of exhaustion. So just to summarize, organization is something that I don't know about you, but for me, when I was originally learning about it, I sort of thought it was good in theory. We all like want to get organized and it's good to get organized. But when it came down to it and I had a choice between spending an hour getting organized or spending an hour actually doing work, I used to think that it's clearly better to just do work because I can actually make progress during that time. It turns out that if we look at how our brain actually works, that's actually not the case. That our brain ultimately can only handle so much at one time, that the capacity of our frontal lobes is limited. In the same part of our brain that keeps track of stuff, plans things, execute tasks, also does things like disciplines our mind, controls impulses, and keeps us from getting distracted. And if my mind is keeping track of a lot of stuff, then I actually find that I'm more vulnerable to distraction. And that may sound kind of weird, but we sort of see that clinically with people with ADHD. So when you teach a child or an adult skills, organizational skills, when they have ADHD, it actually reduces the impact on their ADHD. What we actually find is that kids that are taught how to be organized do just as well as kids who are on pharmacologic medication. So we definitely want to get organized because it sort of helps us from a neuroscientific perspective. The other thing to keep in mind is that when we're developing an organizational system, at the very beginning, it's going to be inefficient because our brain really hasn't acclimatized to using it yet. And so keep that in mind and really think a little bit about why it's important for you to develop the system, what you're going to get long term, and that'll help you sort of overcome those short term inefficiencies. And the last thing that we talked about are the components of an organizational system. And the core of a system should help you not be late and not forget things. And that involves four components. How to prioritize, considering the temporal dimension, so when things are going to get done, how to operationalize, how to account for the knuckleheaded stuff, and also working through whether you want to use electronic things or paper things. At the end of the day, organization is absolutely important, but how you implement it is going to be based on your unique cognitive fingerprint. So it's going to take a little bit of trial and error, which is totally okay and absolutely worth it. Thank you.