 Next up, what I'd love to do is dive into a little bit about how our brain fundamentally directs our attention. So one of the challenges with ADHD is that we struggle with pointing our mind in the direction that we want it to go. And we've touched on other things throughout the course of this module about sort of from a yogic perspective or meditative perspective, how our attention is directed. But what do we know about the direction of attention from a neuroscience perspective? And this is really important, not just for the people with ADHD, but for all of us, because we're living in a society that is increasingly pulling our attention in a thousand different directions. So we're seeing sort of a global movement towards difficulty focusing on a particular thing. And if we want to learn how to overcome that, if we want to learn how to overcome or compensate for the influence of technology, we have to start by understanding in our brain, how does attention actually go from point A to point B? So the first thing to understand is that there are two ways that our brain directs our attention. And that is top-down direction or bottom-up. And these are sort of two methods of information processing, or the way that our brain sort of brings to the surface what we are kind of dealing with in a particular moment. So let's start with top-down. So this is pretty simple, because generally speaking, we have a part of our brain that is our cerebral cortex. So this is where our sense of higher-order human brain functions happen. So things like abstract thought, logic, all of what we sort of think of is this is what humans are capable of doing that animals are not, like waking up in the morning and thinking a little bit about, OK, I have to do laundry today so I can get ready for my job interview tomorrow. And all of those kinds of things are actually governed by the cortex. And the cortex governs top-down thinking. So when we think about top-down thinking, what that essentially means is some higher-order function in the brain, some high-level controller gives an order, and the rest of the brain kind of like gets in line and carries out the order. We can think about top-down thinking as sort of the general in our mind directing troops. So if I have a top-down order from my brain that I need to study, what that sort of does is send signals all throughout the rest of my brain to ignore particular things and focus on the thing like study. So then if, for example, another part of my brain thinks, oh, we were supposed to send a message to our family today, the top-down part will say, well, we're not going to do that now. We're going to focus on studying. There are going to be all kinds of other signals that will suppress. So it'll be parts of our brain that will be telling us, oh, by the way, we're hungry, or there are parts of our brain that will tell us, oh, by the way, we really want to play this video game. But all of those parts of the brain are sort of put in line by this top-down general. So this is what we call top-down thinking. And it's generally speaking the way that we want to be functioning. So most people who struggle with motivation really wish that they could do sort of top-down which is they tell their mind to do something, and their mind actually follows in that direction. The second way we think about information processing is bottom-up. And a good example of understanding this is, let's say I'm walking with a friend of mine like down the street, or I'm walking in a garden. And so my friend and I are sitting there, and we're walking down a garden path, and we're talking about, let's say, philosophy. And so from a top-down perspective, what I'm telling my brain to do is, hey, I'm going to spend time with my friend, and we're going to talk about philosophy, and we're going to have a good time. That's where we will be directing our attention on the discussion of philosophy. And then what happens is we're walking down this garden path, and a snake slithers across it. What happens in that moment in your brain, even though your top-down direction is to discuss philosophy, suddenly there's a visual stimulus which has entered into your visual cortex and then alerts you, hey, there's a snake there. So even though your goal is to talk about philosophy, you suddenly have this visual stimulus that interrupts your attention and sort of flags it and says, hey, we saw a snake. And then suddenly the philosophical discussion ends. Your top-down control has now been interrupted by a bottom-up stimulus. So this is kind of important because generally speaking, our attention is warring between these two types of processing. So our top-down functions are kind of conflicting with our bottom-up functions. The simplest way to understand this is in distractions. So if we think about distractions, if I'm sitting there and I'm trying to direct my mind to study and I hear a ping from my phone because someone sent me a text, that's a bottom-up stimulus that my mind will either switch my attention to or will actually ignore. If the bottom-up processing wins, suddenly my attention is broken and I'm paying attention to the sensory stimulus. If my top-down processing wins, I actually ignore that stimulus and focus on what I'm supposed to be focusing on. So we sort of have this conflict between top-down and bottom-up. Now this becomes particularly important in something like ADHD because in the case of someone with ADHD, they're more vulnerable to bottom-up processing interruptions. So people with ADHD are more likely to be interrupted or distracted by different kinds of sensory stimuli. And so that may seem kind of fatalistic where, okay, if I have ADHD, does that basically mean I'm screwed? But the good answer is no, not at all. In fact, we know that our ability to modulate top-down versus bottom-up processing is actually quite fluctuating and can actually be trained in a particular way. A good example of this is actually parents that are kind of like new to parenting. So before you become a parent, your brain sort of ignores kids that are crying. If they're crying very, very, very loud, of course you'll attend to it, but your brain is not really primed to pay attention for crying. And when you become a new parent or a young parent or even an old parent, at that point something changes in your bottom-up processing. And as a parent, quiet signals of crying, which may have been useless before or wouldn't break through into your attention, now you're hyper aware of any sign of distress from your child. So what we see in that situation is that there used to be a certain kind of bottom-up processing. There used to be a certain sensitivity to a particular kind of stimulus. And the sensitivity to that stimulus changes. And it actually changes on the neuroscientific level, which is absolutely like an evolutionary adaptation, because we want parents to be more acute and more aware of kind of when their children are in distress. The other really interesting thing is that even after you become a parent, it's kind of bizarre for those of you that are parents to sort of recognize this, that you are now aware of all kinds of other stimuli as they relate to kids. Even when I go to a playground, like without even realizing it, is I'm taking in a lot of visual information. So I'm watching my kids, but in the periphery of my vision, there are other kids that are playing around. And what I've noticed is that if those kids start to do something dangerous, something alerts my mind. And even if I'm paying attention to one thing, something interrupts my train of attention because of a change in what I see in my visual field. So this is kind of how we put together top down and bottom up processing. It's sort of the ability to direct our attention on the one hand, and also for our attention to be interrupted on the other hand. This becomes especially important for the world that we live in today because our bottom up bombardment is increasing. The amount of stimuli we're getting that interrupt our attention is essentially growing at an astronomical rate. The simplest way to kind of summarize this is that we have a lot of apps that are now warring for our attention. So if we sort of think about it, like TikTok and YouTube and Facebook and Reddit and all these different apps like Snapchat, Instagram, they're all essentially competing for us. They're competing for our attention. If I watch a lot of content on one platform, that platform generates ad revenue. If I switch my attention to a different platform, that platform generates ad revenue. So essentially all of these apps are trying to fight over pulling us into their particular platform. And in a sense, like I almost want to say that's okay. Like there's not necessarily anything wrong with different kinds of companies competing for customers. The real challenge is that as they get better at claiming our attention, what loses out is everything else. So what loses out is my textbook. What loses out are the things that I want to do because now my attention is being grabbed by all of these different technological platforms. And what is the mechanism that they use to interrupt my studying? What is the mechanism that they use to pull my attention away from my goals? What they use are these sensory stimuli that take advantage of bottom up processing. So when we're going bottom up, remember it's things that we don't want to focus on, but our brain is sort of interpreting a ton of sensory input. And it's sort of always kind of interpreting it, but sort of suppressing it. So even though you walk down the street, the only way that your brain can alert you to a snake is if it sees the snake first. And if we sort of think about it, what that sort of means is that our brain is constantly drowning out or suppressing all sorts of visual stimuli. The challenge is that as technology sort of improves or gets more sophisticated, it gets better and better at pulling our attention away. The other problem with this, as we sort of mentioned, is that if you have ADHD, people with ADHD are more sensitive to disruptions from bottom up processing. And these two things kind of intersect to really create problems. This not only is my brain vulnerable to bottom up interruptions, but now I have all of these apps that are actually trying to do a better and more sophisticated job at interrupting me, which is precisely what creates what we see now, which is that people feel like they have more ADHD. Even though clinically they may not have ADHD, even people who don't have ADHD feel that way. And if you talk to these people, and maybe you've had this experience, what do they actually say? Why does everyone think they have ADHD now? It's because they can't focus the way that they used to. And if you tunnel down further, what does that mean? You can't focus the way that you used to. Well, 10 years ago, I could read a book. Now I can't read a book. Well, what gets in the way? Well, I find myself on my phone. And so what we're sort of seeing is an intersection of technological development with certain vulnerabilities with the way that our brain directs attention. So the good news is that there's actually a lot we can do to improve our top down control and actually make it easier from a bottom up standpoint as well. The first thing to understand is that we can meditate. And we know that meditation strengthens our top down control. It strengthens our brain's ability to focus on what we tell it to focus on. The other interesting thing is that we don't just have to meditate. It's not the answer to everything. And we'll start with something like a simple question. So is it easier to study in a dirty room or a clean room? And so most of you instinctively kind of know, well, it's kind of easier to study in a clean room, right? The question is why? What's going on? What difference does it make whether the book that you're reading here or if you're on your computer or whatever, if there's a huge mess on either side of where you're sitting or a huge mess behind you, what difference does that make? Because it shouldn't really make a difference, right? Because all you're doing is focusing on the text in front of you. But it turns out that if you understand the principles of information processing and attentional control in the brain, we reveal something really interesting. So researchers actually did studies where they had people focus in dirty spaces and focus in clean spaces. And what they actually discovered is that there's a statistically significant difference between the two. When you're trying to focus your attention in a clean space, it appears to be easier than when you do it in a dirty space. And so the question is what's going on? Well, it turns out that when you study in a dirty space, you're kind of focusing on this, but there's a portion of your brain that is actually focusing on everything in your visual field. So even though you're not really focusing on that stuff, there's a part of your brain that is processing everything you see visually. And if that wasn't going on, we would never be able to see the snake in the garden in the first place. There has to be some kind of visual stimulus which is being received by the brain, but actually suppressed by the brain, so it never reaches the level of conscious awareness. It turns out, though, that that action of receiving those signals and suppressing that information actually uses up the brain's energy. And so when we study in a very dirty place, what that actually means is that a portion of our brain is still receiving those stimuli constantly and suppressing them from your attention. So even though you're kind of not aware of it, your brain is doing a lot of subconscious work which it can't then devote to actually studying. So this is why it's kind of interesting, but researchers have essentially discovered that cleaning your space is an effective way to boost your attentional control and your ability to focus. The other thing that we want to consider in terms of how to manage this is we mentioned that as technology starts warring for your attention, it sort of follows that we can sort of try to ease the burdens on your bottom-up system by cleaning. We can meditate to strengthen the top-down system. But the other really simple thing that we can do is regulate technology's ability to interfere with us. So next up, what we're going to do is dive into the specifics of setting good technology habits. And how can we really understand, OK, what can I do with the technology in my life to keep it from taking advantage of this bottom-up interruption?