 We used to be able to watch 30 minute or hour long TV shows. We used to be able to read books. And I want to say it used to be a little bit easier to actually study. But technology is changing our attention span. As technology becomes more bite sized, we no longer need to pay attention the way that we used to. The payoff from technology is becoming sweeter, faster, and more immediate. And what we're also seeing a parallel of is a rise in the diagnosis of ADHD. Clinically, people are being diagnosed more with ADHD now than they ever have been. But that begs a couple of questions. Is this because more people have ADHD? Or is it because we're actually becoming more aware of how big of a problem is and we're just more catching more diagnoses that we used to miss? Chances are it's a little bit of all of the above. And while we certainly are more sophisticated and more aware that ADHD is out there, we also seem to be observing changes in our attention span. And even if you don't meet clinical criteria for ADHD, I as a psychiatrist have heard the most complaints I've ever heard for people struggling to control their attention, even if they don't have ADHD. So what's going on? Chances are that as technology evolves, our attention span is adapting to it. So as I mentioned before, if you sort of think a little bit about how our attention span used to be 30 years ago or 40 years ago, presuming you were alive back then, even if you look at something like reading a book, reading a book is a situation where the payoff isn't immediate. You read the book, the beginning is slow, it gets kind of interesting in the middle, there are slow parts, interesting parts, there's hopefully a really good climax at the end, but it's sort of this idea that there's delayed gratification. Even if we look at the manner in which the internet used to convey information, it used to be longer form and longer duration. We used to have things like blog posts instead of tweets. We used to have things like Facebook instead of Instagram, and I recognize that both of those platforms are still here. We also used to have things like vlogs in these very long video essays, whereas now what we tend to have is very short videos like TikToks. And the longer content is still out there, but if we look at the trend, what we're essentially doing is selecting for shorter and shorter and shorter content. And as we select for shorter content, what our brain sort of does is gets rid of anything that it doesn't need. So our brain is a very efficient organ, and it sort of has this simple principle of if you don't use it, you'll lose it. So as we no longer need to pay attention for 30 minutes or one hour, as we start to read fewer books and read more tweets, our brain essentially lets go of our ability to hold attention for a prolonged period of time. It's almost like a language where if you don't practice it, our brain sort of figures out, oh, I don't need to know this language, so it starts forgetting. And in the same way, the more content that we consume that's very, very short, our brain is sort of like, we don't need to pay attention for a long period of time, so let's stop wasting energy on being able to hold our attention for an extended period of time. At the end of the day, what we can sort of be sure of is that content is getting shorter, more people are struggling with attention, and more people are struggling with ADHD. And the good news is that that's actually enough. We can still sort of take those three things, even if we don't understand exactly what the relationship is, and start to build healthier technology habits, whether you have ADHD or don't have ADHD. So what are some tips for building healthier technology habits? The first thing that I'd recommend is be very, very careful about phone usage. So phones are devices on which we can do anything. And that sort of is good in a lot of ways, but it's actually a problem in a lot of ways too, because we can do work on our phone, we can check our work email on our phone, and we can text our friends on our phone. So what that sort of means is that work can become recreation very easily, and recreation can also slip into work. It's not just that phones distract us from doing our work, phones also allow us to work 24-7. And when we're constantly checking our email, when we answer a quick work email at 9.35 in the evening, what it does is prevents our brain from ever getting a break, and that leads to burnout. So good phone hygiene is, I think, the cornerstone of healthy technology habits in the world that we live in today. So the first tip that I'd sort of give people is create physical separation from your phone. The nice thing about the phone is that you can carry it everywhere, right? And what does that end up meaning? It means that when we sit down to eat a meal, sometimes even with a friend of ours, we actually flip out our phone and we're kind of like looking through it. When we sit down to watch a TV show, what do we do when there's a slow period in the TV show? We pull out our phone, we start scrolling through something. It can get so ridiculous that we can be watching TV and playing a game on our phone at the same time. And let's not even mention what goes on in the bathroom with our phones, because that's the one place where everyone loves to have their phone. So create physical separation. If you don't want to give in to your fluctuating attention span, because that's essentially what happens, when my mind wanders and I pull out my phone, I'm essentially training my brain to not keep my mind in one place. I'm rewarding it for distractibility, right? So if I forget about one thing and my mind goes somewhere else and I reward it with a dopaminergic hit from my phone, I'm actually in training it to not keep its attention in one area. So the first simple thing that you can do is create physical separation with your phone. So what I'd recommend is actually leaving your phone maybe near your door or potentially with your keys or wallet, stick it in a drawer somewhere in your home, and then go about whatever else you're doing. Just keep doing what you would normally be doing just without your phone. And this can be kind of confusing for people, because a lot of people are like, but what if? What if someone calls with an emergency or what if something happens or what if someone needs something at work? And that's where I really encourage you to think about in the last month, in the last three months, in the last six months, you sleep with your phone right beside you, so you're on your phone right before you go to bed, you're on your phone first thing you wake in the morning, how many emergency phone calls have you gotten in the last three months? How many emergency phone calls have you gotten in the last six months? Well, what if someone needs something at work at 9.35 at night? Well, that's also where I encourage you to think a little bit about what you're training by responding at 9.35. You're signaling to all of your coworkers that I'm available to do work at 9.35, which is why they send you emails at 9.35, which is why you get them at 9.35 and which is why you feel like you can't get a break. So create physical separation with your phone. Another important tip is I would not sleep with your phone within arm's distance. So when you get into bed, either leave your phone at the opposite end of the room or leave it in a different room. If you're paranoid about getting phone calls in the middle of the night, I would leave it in the bathroom and leave the door open or leave it on your dresser, which is not within arm's reach. It's still there if you really need it, but what it'll do is break that physical habit of just grabbing it at any random time. That'll do all kinds of things like help you to go to bed on time, help you fall asleep more easily, and will also sort of change your waking up ritual. The second thing that we can do is not only create physical separation, but also think very carefully about what notifications we receive. And this isn't just in terms of phone stuff. It's also in terms of desktop PCs or laptops or whatever. So I'd be very, very careful about what kinds of notifications you receive. Now, you may enjoy getting notifications, but I want you to be critical about when you get a notification, what does it do for the rest of your day? What does it do to the next five minutes? What does it do to your hour? What does it do to your attention over time? Generally speaking, I think the simplest thing to do is just to turn off notifications entirely for any kind of thing that's distractible. If you need notifications from work, that's kind of a different sort of story. But that's also where there are a lot of sophisticated settings on phones now. There are even apps that will sort of block particular notifications. And it's tricky because some apps will make it hard to block notifications. And why do they do that? Because they're warring for your attention. They're trying to distract you, right? They're trying to suck you in. So this is where I encourage all of you to be a little bit critical and almost map this stuff out. So when it comes to apps or technology, what are the worst offenders that you have? What are the technological devices you use? What are the apps that you use that cause you to stay up the latest? When you stay up way later than you should, what is it that you're actually staying up doing on your phone? Which are the most successful apps? In addition to basic technology hygiene, we also need to be really careful because we're increasingly entering a world where work and play blend together. As we've already mentioned, it's really easy to get distracted from work by doing something fun on your phone or your device. And it's really easy to let yourself work when you should be relaxing. So one of the simplest things that you can do is really try to separate out these two experiences and set really firm limits on it. So if you're using a desktop, like for example, like I do, so I play games on my desktop and I work on my desktop, but I'm really careful about simple things like logins. So we can use tools like having a work login and having a gaming login. And when you start to separate things out, you sort of increase the barrier to switch over from one activity to another. And that's really, really important because what a lot of apps and technology really try to do is they make it very easy to capitalize on a temporary distraction. Right. So the second I get a ping from a notification, all I need to do, I can get distracted for 30 seconds. And if in those 30 seconds I open up an app, then I lose a whole hour. I can lose a 30 second fight and the cost is one hour of my time. So as we increase the barriers to engage in a distraction, we can actually protect ourselves from that distraction. This is why if you kind of think about back in the day when I was in college, I would go study at a library and I'd study with a physical book. Did I get distracted? Absolutely. Did I get distracted 10 times an hour? Absolutely. I get distracted for 30 seconds. I wouldn't focus on the textbook. But in order to do something fun, I had to get up, pack up, go downstairs, climb down six flights of stairs and leave the library. But over the period of that 30 seconds, if I just didn't leave my chair, I'd kind of go back to studying. So this is where, especially when it comes to work-life balance, we want to separate out these two activities. So you can do simple things like create different logins if you're using a desktop or a laptop. You can also, in some cases, use different devices. So we'll see this a lot for young professionals or older professionals who will have a work phone and a personal phone. And the personal phone is for personal stuff and the work phone is for work things. This is also where you can sort of adjust a little bit about what's on your home screen or what you have access to. So we basically want to be as creative as we can. But the goal here is that it should not be simple for you to slip into work and it should not be simple for you to slip into fun. And the third thing that we want to talk about is actually using the alarm function on your phone. So this is where even if you want to, you know, veg out on your phone or some kind of device for a little while, you can set limits on it. So the challenge with technology usage is that once we get sucked in, it's really, really hard to get out. And that's where I know it sounds kind of bizarre, but sometimes you can do something as simple as set an alarm. So even if I'm playing a game or something like that, sometimes what I'll do is set an alarm on my phone before I sit down to play a game. And even that kind of notification that interrupts the flow of the game sort of signals to me, hey, like that's kind of enough and maybe it's time to stop. And oftentimes what I do when I set an alarm is I'll sort of ask myself when the alarm goes off, am I still enjoying playing this game? Am I really able to do work? Do I really need to be doing it? Because a lot of what happens with app usage and with games is that we sort of enter into this loop, right? Where if we even think about platforms, content platforms like YouTube, where the second you finish one video, you get suggestions for what comes next. And then you click the next one, you click the next one, you click the next one, and you're kind of operating on autopilot. So the goal of something as simple as an alarm is to break the autopilot. I'm not saying that if you set an alarm, you necessarily have to stop 100 percent or even that you'll be able to stop. But at least what it'll do is raise some awareness and combat the autopilot. I also use alarms for like useless scrolling on my phone, where if I'm going to take a break from work and I kind of want to veg out, I'll set a quick alarm. Sometimes it's 10 minutes, sometimes it's 20 minutes. And the interesting thing about technology is that even though we get sucked into it, we tend to not enjoy it after a particular period of time. So the first 10 minutes of browsing something like TikTok, you're kind of having fun and you can absolutely browse TikTok for four hours. But I can guarantee you that hour three is not going to be as fun as the first 10 minutes. And so the interesting thing is that if we can break that autopilot cycle and raise some awareness, we can get some control over it. At the end of the day, figuring out how to set up healthy technology hygiene is a little bit of a process. It's going to require a lot of awareness on your part, a lot of experimentation on your part, a lot of really figuring out, OK, what's your drug of choice when it comes to technology? What are the areas in which you're the most vulnerable? And we'll share certain exercises and worksheets and things like that to help you sort of map out, OK, what is your technology usage? And which of these battles can you lose that you lose a 30 minute battle? I mean, a 30 second battle and then end up wasting four hours of your time. So as we gain awareness of this stuff, we're not saying that you need to abstain from technology usage. It's just simply that some of these things cost us a lot more than others. And by sort of starting to be a little bit more hygienic with our technology usage, we can start to reclaim our attention and reclaim our lives. Thank you.